{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302303", "text": "Washington Navy Yard\n\nThe Washington Navy Yard is the former shipyard and ordnance plant of the United States Navy in Southeast Washington, D.C. It is the oldest shore base of the U.S. Navy. The Yard currently serves as a ceremonial and administrative center for the U.S. Navy. It has the offices of the Chief of Naval Operations, the Naval Sea Systems Command, Naval Historical Center, the Department of Naval History, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, the U.S. Navy Judge Advocate General's Corps, Naval Reactors, Marine Corps Institute, the United States Navy Band, and numerous other naval commands. Before 2006, it used to be the headquarters to the Marine Corps Historical Center, but that center moved to Quantico. The Washington Navy Yard was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1973. It was designated a National Historic Landmark on May 11, 1976.\n\nThe history of the yard can be divided into its military history and cultural and scientific history.\n\nThe land was purchased under an Act of Congress on July 23, 1799. The Washington Navy Yard was established on October 2, 1799, the date the property was transferred to the Navy. It is the oldest shore base of the U.S. Navy. The Yard was built under the direction of Benjamin Stoddert, the first Secretary of the Navy, under the supervision of the Yard's first commandant, Commodore Thomas Tingey, who served in that capacity for 29 years.\n\nThe original boundaries that were established in 1800, along 9th and M Street Southeast, are still marked by a white brick wall that surrounds the Yard on the north and east sides. The next year, two additional lots were purchased. The north wall of the Yard was built in 1809 along with a guardhouse, now known as the Latrobe Gate. After the Burning of Washington in 1814, Tingey recommended that the height of the eastern wall be increased to ten feet (3 m) because of the fire and subsequent looting.\n\nThe southern boundary of the Yard was formed by the Anacostia River (then called the \"Eastern Branch\" of the Potomac River). The west side was undeveloped marsh. The land located along the Anacostia was added to by landfill over the years as it became necessary to increase the size of the Yard.\n\nFrom its first years, the Washington Navy Yard became the navy's largest shipbuilding and shipfitting facility, with 22 vessels constructed there, ranging from small 70-foot (21 m) gunboats to the 246-foot (75 m) steam frigate USS \"Minnesota\". The USS \"Constitution\" came to the Yard in 1812 to refit and prepare for combat action.\nDuring the War of 1812, the Navy Yard was an important support facility. It was also helped defend the capital city from the British. Sailors at the Navy Yard were part of the hastily assembled American army which, at Bladensburg, Maryland, opposed the British forces marching on Washington. The Navy Yard sailors and marines of nearby Marine Barracks, Washington, D.C., were in the third and last line of defense at Bladensburg. Together, they fought hand to hand with cutlasses and pikes against the British regulars before being overwhelmed. As the British marched into Washington, holding the Yard became impossible. Tingey, seeing the smoke from the burning Capitol, ordered the Yard burned to prevent its capture by the enemy. Tingey's own quarters (now Quarters A) and the Latrobe Gate were spared from the flames. Both structures are now individually listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nFollowing the War of 1812, the Washington Navy Yard never regained its prominence as a shipbuilding facility. The waters of the Anacostia River were too shallow to accommodate larger vessels, and the Yard was deemed too inaccessible to the open sea. Thus came a shift to what was to be the character of the Yard for more than a century: ordnance and technology. The Yard possessed one of the earliest steam engines in the United States, and was used to manufacture anchors, chain, and steam engines for vessels of war.\n\nDuring the American Civil War, the Yard once again became an integral part of the defense of Washington. Commandant Franklin Buchanan resigned his commission to join the Confederacy, leaving the Yard to Commander John A. Dahlgren. President Abraham Lincoln, who held Dahlgren in the highest esteem, was a frequent visitor. The famous ironclad USS \"Monitor\" was repaired at the Yard after her historic battle with the CSS \"Virginia\". The Lincoln assassination conspirators were brought to the Yard following their capture. The body of John Wilkes Booth was examined and identified on the monitor USS \"Montauk\", moored at the Yard.\n\nFollowing the war, the Yard continued to be the scene of technological advances. In 1886, the Yard was designated the manufacturing center for all ordnance in the Navy. Commander Theodore F. Jewell was Superintendent of the Naval Gun Factory from January 1893 to February 1896. Ordnance production continued as the Yard manufactured armament for the Great White Fleet and the World War I navy. The naval railway guns used in France during World War I were manufactured at the Yard.\n\nBy World War II, the Yard was the largest naval ordnance plant in the world. The weapons designed and built there were used in every war in which the United States fought until the 1960s. At its peak, the Yard consisted of 188 buildngs on 126 acres (0.5 km²) of land and employed nearly 25,000 people. Small components for optical systems, and enormous battleship guns were all manufactured here. In December 1945, the Yard was renamed the U.S. Naval Gun Factory. Ordnance work continued for some years after World War II until finally phased out in 1961. Three years later, on July 1, 1964, the activity was redesignated the Washington Navy Yard. The deserted factory buildings began to be converted to office use.\n\nThe Washington Navy Yard was added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1973, and designated a National Historic Landmark on May 11, 1976.\n\nIt was headquarters to the Marine Corps Historical Center. That was moved in 2006 to Quantico.\n\nMany scientific developments took place at the Washington Navy Yard. Robert Fulton worked on his clockwork torpedo during the War of 1812. In 1822, Commodore John Rodgers built the country's first marine railway for the overhaul of large vessels. John A. Dahlgren developed his bottle-shaped cannon that became the mainstay of naval ordnance before the Civil War. In 1898, David W. Taylor developed a ship model testing basin which was used by the Navy and private shipbuilders to test the effect of water on new hull designs. The first shipboard aircraft catapult was tested in the Anacostia River in 1912. A wind tunnel was completed at the Yard in 1916. The giant gears for the Panama Canal locks were cast at the Yard. Navy Yard technicians applied their efforts to medical designs for prosthetic hands and molds for artificial eyes and teeth.\n\nThe Washington Navy Yard was the ceremonial gateway to the nation's capital. In 1860, the first Japanese diplomatic mission was welcomed to the United States in an impressive pageant at the Yard. The body of World War I's Unknown Soldier was received here. Charles A. Lindbergh returned to the Navy Yard in 1927 after his famous transatlantic flight. In 1939, Britain's King George VI, representing the dominion of Canada, visited the Yard during his Washington stay.\nAs of 2004, the Navy Yard houses a variety of activities. It is the main office of the Naval District Washington, and houses numerous support activities for the fleet and aviation communities. The Navy Museum welcomes visitors to the Navy Art Collection. Its displays of naval art and artifacts trace the Navy's history from the Revolutionary War to the present day. The Naval History and Heritage Command is housed in a complex of buildings known as the Dudley Knox Center for Naval History. Leutze Park is the scene of colorful ceremonies.\nThe destroyer USS \"Barry\" is a museum ship at the Washington Navy Yard, and is open to tourists. The \"Barry\" is frequently used for change of command ceremonies for naval commands in the area.\n\nThe Yard serves as a ceremonial and administrative center for the U.S. Navy, home to the Chief of Naval Operations. It is headquarters for the Naval Sea Systems Command, Naval Historical Center, the Department of Naval History, the Naval Criminal Investigative Service, the U.S. Navy Judge Advocate General's Corps, Naval Reactors, Marine Corps Institute, the United States Navy Band, and many other naval commands.\n\nOn September 16, 2013, a shooting took place at the Yard. Shots were fired at the headquarters for the Naval Sea Systems Command Headquarters building #197. At least 17 people, including at least eight civilians, one D.C. police officer and one peacekeeper, were shot. Thirteen fatalities were confirmed by the United States Navy and D.C. Police. Officials said the gunman, Aaron Alexis, a 34-year-old civilian contractor from Queens, New York, was killed during a gun battle with police.\n\n\n", "id": "302303", "title": "Washington Navy Yard"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302306", "text": "Alexey Stakhanov\n\nAlexey Grigoryevich Stakhanov (; 3 January 1906– 5 November 1977) was a miner in the Soviet Union. In 1970, he was made a Hero of Socialist Labor. In 1936, he became a member of the CPSU. He became a celebrity in 1935 as part of a movement that was intended to increase worker productivity and demonstrate the superiority of the socialist economic system.\n\nStakhanov was born in Lugovaya near Oryol. In 1927, he began working in a mine called \"Tsentralnaya-Irmino\" in Kadievka (Donbass). In 1933, Stakhanov became a jackhammer operator. In 1935, he took a local course in mining. On 31 August 1935, it was reported that he had mined a record 102 tonnes of coal in 5 hours and 45 minutes (14 times his quota). On 19 September, Stakhanov was reported to have set a new record by mining 227 tonnes of coal in a single shift. His example was held up in newspapers and posters as a model for others to follow, and he even appeared on the cover of Time Magazine.\n\nBetween 1936 and 1941, Stakhanov was a student of the Industrial Academy in Moscow. In 1941–1942, he was appointed director of mine No. 31 in Karaganda. Between 1943 and 1957, Stakhanov worked in the Ministry of Coal Industry of the USSR. In 1957–1959, he was deputy director of the \"Chistyakovantratsit\" trust, and after that, assistant chief engineer at the mine management office No. 2/43 of the \"Torezantratsit\" trust until his retirement in 1974.\n\nStakhanov was a deputy of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR of the first convocation. He was awarded two Orders of Lenin, Order of the Red Banner, and numerous medals. The last Sunday of August was designated \"Coal Miner's Day\", also apparently in his honor.\n\nThe town of Kadievka in eastern Ukraine where he started his work was renamed Stakhanov in his honour in 1978, after his death.\n\nStakhanov's records set an example throughout the country and gave birth to the Stakhanovite movement where workers who exceeded production targets could become \"Stakhanovites\". Orwell in Animal Farm presents Boxer as a symbolic character of the \"Stakhanovites\".\n\nThe validity of Stakhanov's record has since been called into question. In 1985, \"The New York Times\" printed a story that said Stakhanov had indeed succeeded in his feat, but that it was only because the Communist Party had pre-arranged the event. With it, the Communist party wanted to boost public morale. According to this article, many other miners helped Stakhanov beat the mining record. The \"Times\" quoted the chief of the Tsentralnaya-Irmino mine's branch of the Party, Konstantin G. Petrov: \"I suppose Stakhanov need not have been the first... It could have been anybody else. In the final analysis it was not the individual face-worker who determined whether the attempt to break the record would succeed, but the new system of coal extraction.\" In 1988, Soviet newspaper Komsomolskaya Pravda claimed that the widely propagandized personal achievements of Stakhanov were puffery — the paper insisted that Stakhanov had used a number of helpers on support works, while the throughput was tallied for him alone. Still, according to the newspaper, Stakhanov's approach had eventually led to the increased productivity by means of a better organization of the work, including specialization and task sequencing.\n\nIt has also been claimed that his record was beaten by Alija Sirotanović of Yugoslavia and Sergej Scemuk of Ukraine.\n", "id": "302306", "title": "Alexey Stakhanov"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302311", "text": "Greco-Bactrian Kingdom\n\nThe Greco-Bactrian Kingdom was the eastern-most tip of the Ancient Greek world. It lasted between 250-125BC. \nIt covered Afghanistan but also bits of Turkmenistan, Iran, Pakistan etc. It covered ground originally conquored by Alexander the Great.\n\nMuch of our information comes from the Roman Strabo. Much archaeology has been done in Afghanistan. In particular, the cities of Aï Khanoum and Begram.\n\nThe National Museum of Afghanistan has put on a touring exhibition which has been to the British Museum but also to France, Germany and the Netherlands. Much other archeology is on display in the Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia.\n", "id": "302311", "title": "Greco-Bactrian Kingdom"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302312", "text": "Northwestern College (Illinois)\n\nNorthwestern College (NC), formerly Northwestern Business College, is a college in Illinois. It has no affiliation with Northwestern University. Northwestern College has campuses in Bridgeview, Chicago, and Napeville.\n", "id": "302312", "title": "Northwestern College (Illinois)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302314", "text": "Bosporan Kingdom\n\nThe Bosporan Kingdom (often called Kingdom of the Cimmerian Bosporus) was an ancient empire, covering the Crimea and a lot of the north coast of the Black Sea. It is regarded as the first real 'Hellenistic' country also speaking Greek.\n\nThe Bosporan Kingdom was the longest surviving known Roman client kingdom (allied state). It was a Roman Province between 63 and 68, under Roman Emperor Nero. In the 1st century and 2nd century AD was a period of a new 'golden age' of the Bosporan Kingdom when it was famous for its jewellery. In the end of the 2nd century the King Sauromates II inflicted a critical defeat to the Scythians (a nomadic tribe) and included all the territories of the Crimea in the structure of his state.\n\nThe Bosporan Kingdom became rich from selling wheat, fish and slaves to rest of Europe. This means that there are a lot of amazing and very rich finds from the Kingdom, especially found in burial barrows (known as kurgans). Today, there are lots of architectural and sculptural remains from the Bosporan Kingdoms and many finds can be seen in the Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg, Russia. These include gold work and vases imported from Ancient Athens and the rest of Ancient Greece.\n\nIt was finally destroyed by the Goths (barbarian tribes) at the end of the 4th century AD\n", "id": "302314", "title": "Bosporan Kingdom"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302315", "text": "Navy Yard, Washington, D.C.\n\nNavy Yard, also known as Near Southeast, is a neighborhood on the Anacostia River in Southeast Washington, D.C. Navy Yard is bounded by Interstate 395 to the north, South Capitol Street to the west, and the Anacostia River to the south and east. The neighborhood is named after the Washington Navy Yard. The Navy Yard fills about half of the neighborhood. The neighborhood is in D.C.'s Ward 6, currently represented by Tommy Wells. It is served by the Navy Yard Metro station on the Green Line.\n\nHistorically, the Anacostia River was once a deep water channel with natural resources and home to the Nacotchtank Indians. In 1791, Pierre Charles L’Enfant designed the plan for Washington D.C. and, recognizing the worth of the Anacostia River, set up the city’s new commercial center and wharfs there. In 1799, the Washington Navy Yard was built in the area and for many decades was the nation’s largest naval shipbuilding facility. Today, the Washington Navy Yard has been run by the Navy longer than anywhere else. \n\nThe Navy Yard was a busy center in the 19th century and was important in the development of the area. The lively wharf was a center for jobs, serving ships with lumber and raw materials for the growing city. It also played a key role in defending the city from the British during the War of 1812. Surrounding the wharfs was a large commercial district, light industrial businesses, and one of the city’s most notable neighborhoods. As the city and nation developed, the Navy Yard changed from ship building to making finished ship products and weapons ammunition. By the mid-1940s in wartime the Navy Yard and the expanded Annex area were making the most ammo with 26,000 employees in 132 buildings on of land.\n\nHowever, during the 20th century the river got worse. The pollution of the river made it less valuable to the city. After World War II, the Navy Yard moved everything to a smaller campus, slowing commerce in the area. For this and other reasons the riverfront neighborhoods became overrun with crime.\n\nFor many years, the neighborhood was an industrial district The area was formerly home to a large commercial and adult-entertainment district, which has now been displaced. Since 1990, the building of a new U.S. Department of Transportation office complex and Nationals Park, the new USD$600 million stadium of the Washington Nationals Major League Baseball team, caused quick changes in the neighborhood. Most of the neighborhood's land and businesses have been purchased by companies and is currently being developed into commercial and residential projects. The area plans to contain 12 to of office space, 9,000 residential units, 1,200 hospitality rooms, of retail space, four public parks, and an Anacostia Riverwalk trail system.\n\n\n", "id": "302315", "title": "Navy Yard, Washington, D.C."}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302318", "text": "Getty Center\n\nThe Getty Center, in Brentwood, Los Angeles, California, is a campus for cultural institutions founded by oilman J. Paul Getty. The $1.3 billion center opened on December 16, 1997. People like its architecture, gardens, and views overlooking Los Angeles. The center is at the top of a hill, and visitors travel from a visitor's parking garage at the bottom of the hill to the top using a three-car, cable-pulled tram. The center draws 1.3 million visitors annually.\n\nIt is one of two locations of the J. Paul Getty Museum. This part has \"pre-20th-century European paintings, drawings, illuminated manuscripts, sculpture, and decorative arts; and 19th- and 20th-century American and European photographs\". One of the paintings on display is \"Irises\" by Vincent van Gogh. Besides the museum, the center's buildings house the Getty Research Institute (GRI), the Getty Conservation Institute, the Getty Foundation, and the administrative offices of the J. Paul Getty Trust, which owns and operates the center. The center also has outdoor sculptures displayed on terraces and in gardens. The center was designed by architect Richard Meier, and the campus includes a central garden designed by artist Robert Irwin. GRI's separate building contains a research library with over 900,000 volumes and two million photographs of art and architecture. The center's design included special provisions to address concerns regarding earthquakes and fires.\n\nThe Getty Museum started in J. Paul Getty's house in Pacific Palisades in 1954. He made the house larger by adding a new section. In the 1970s, Getty built a copy of an Italian villa near his home. This new building was a better place to keep his art collection. It opened as a museum in 1974. After Getty died in 1976, all of the land and buildings were given to the Getty Trust to be used as museum space. However, the collection grew too big for the site. The people running the museum looked for a new location closer to Los Angeles. In 1983, the Trust bought the land where the center is now. The new campus has on a site in the Santa Monica Mountains above Interstate 405, surrounded by kept in a natural state. The land cost $25 million. The top of the hill is above I-405. So, on a clear day it is possible to see not only the Los Angeles skyline but also the San Bernardino Mountains to the east as well as the Pacific Ocean to the west.\n\nIn 1984, Richard Meier was chosen to be the architect of the center. It took a several years to get permits to build the Getty Center. The Hathaway Dinwiddie Construction Company built the new buildings starting in August 1989. The construction was significantly delayed, with the planned completion date moved from 1988 to 1995 (as of 1990). By 1995, however, the campus was described as only \"more than halfway complete\".\n\nThe center finally opened to the public on December 16, 1997. Although the total project cost was estimated to be $350 million as of 1990, it was later estimated to be $1.3 billion. After the center opened, the villa closed for extensive renovations and reopened on January 28, 2006, to focus on the arts and cultures of ancient Greece, Rome, and Etruria. Currently, the museum displays collections at both the Getty Center and the site (called the Getty Villa) in Pacific Palisades.\n\nIn 2005, the \"Los Angeles Times\" printed a series of articles about how the Getty Trust and its president Dr. Barry Munitz were spending money. However, the California Attorney General investigated of the Getty Trust and found that no laws had been broken. The trust agreed to appoint a person from outside the Trust to review how money would be spent in the future. The Getty Trust experienced financial difficulties in 2008 and 2009 and cut 205 of 1,487 budgeted staff positions to reduce expenses. Although the Getty Trust endowment reached $6.4 billion in 2007, it dropped to $4.5 billion in 2009.\n\nMeier has exploited the two naturally-occurring ridges (which diverge at a 22.5 degree angle) by overlaying two grids along these axes. These grids serve to define the space of the campus while dividing the import of the buildings on it. Along one axis lie the galleries and along the other axis lie the administrative buildings. Meier emphasized the two competing grids by constructing strong view lines through the campus. The main north-south axis starts with the helipad, then includes a narrow walkway between the auditorium and north buildings. The axis continues past the elevator kiosk to the tram station. The axis goes through the rotunda, past the walls and support columns of the exhibitions pavilion, and finally the ramp besides the west pavilion and the central garden. Its corresponding east-west visual axis starts with the edge of the scholar's wing of the Getty Research Institute (GRI), the walkway between the central garden and the GRI, and the overlook to the azalea pool in the central garden. The east-west axis then follows the walkway between the central garden and the west pavilion, and finally the north wall of the west pavilion and the courtyard between the south and east pavilions.\n\nThe main axes of the museum grid that is offset by 22.5 degrees begins with the arrival plaza, carries through the edge of the stairs up to the main entrance, aligns with the columns supporting the rotunda as well as the center point of the rotunda, aligns with travertine benches in the courtyard between the pavilions, includes a narrow walkway between the west and south pavilions, a staircase down to the cactus garden and ends in the garden. The corresponding cross axis starts with the center point of the circle forming the GRI library garden, then passing to the center of the entrance rotunda, and aligning with the south wall of the rotunda building. Although all of the museum is aligned on these alternative axes, portions of the exhibitions pavilion and the east pavilion are aligned on the true north-south axis as a reminder that both grids are present in the campus.\n\nThe primary grid structure is a square; most wall and floor elements are squares or some derivative thereof. The buildings at the Getty Center are made from concrete and steel with either travertine or aluminium cladding. Around of travertine was used to build the center.\n\nThroughout the campus, many fountains provide white noise as a background. The initial design has remained intact; however benches and fences have been installed around the plaza fountains to discourage visitors from wading into the pools. Some additional revisions have been made in deference to the Americans with Disabilities Act.\n\nThe north promontory is anchored by a circular grass area, which serves as a landing place for helicopters (heliport) in case of emergencies, and the south promontory is anchored by a succulent plant and cactus garden. Access roads also circle the complex and go to loading docks and staff parking garages on both the west and east sides of the buildings. The hillside around the complex has been planted with California Live Oak (\"Quercus agrifolia\") trees.\n\nAt the bottom of the hill, the museum has a seven-story deep underground visitor parking garage with over 1,200 parking spaces. Its roof has an outdoor sculpture garden. An automated three-car, cable-pulled tram takes passengers between the parking garage at the bottom of the hill and the museum at the top of the hill.\n\nVisitors typically arrive at a tram station in the arrival plaza between the administrative buildings and the museum entrance. A large set of steps leads to the main doors of the rotunda building. The rotunda building houses information desks, two orientation theatres and museum shops. It also holds a grand staircase that starts a path toward the paintings on the second floor of each art pavilion. The rotunda opens to the south to a terrace that links all five of the museum pavilions. A separate building to the west of the arrival plaza and stairs holds a cafeteria and restaurant. Next to the restaurant is a stone arch, which separates the museum from the GRI. In between the GRI and the restaurant, outdoor stairs go down from the main level to the central garden.\n\nThe Getty Center's estimated 1.3 million visitors annually make it one of the most visited museums in the United States. The collection of the J. Paul Getty Museum on display at the Getty Center includes \"pre-20th-century European paintings, drawings, illuminated manuscripts, sculpture, and decorative arts; and 19th- and 20th-century American and European photographs\". The paintings include:\n\nGetty's photograph collection is on the lower level of the west pavilion. It includes 35,000 individual prints, 1,500 daguerreotypes and other cased objects, 30,000 stereographs and cartes-de-visite, and 475 albums containing almost 40,000 mounted prints.\nThe museum building has a three-level base building that is closed to the public and provides staff workspace and storage areas. Five public, two-story towers on the base are called the North, East, South, West and the Exhibitions Pavilions. The Exhibitions Pavilion acts as the temporary residence for traveling art collections and the Foundation's artwork for which the permanent pavilions have no room. The permanent collection is displayed throughout the other four pavilions chronologically: the north houses the oldest art while the west houses the newest. The first-floor galleries in each pavilion house light-sensitive art, such as illuminated manuscripts, furniture, or photography. Computer-controlled skylights on the second-floor galleries allow paintings to be displayed in natural light. The second floors are connected by a series of glass-enclosed bridges and open terraces. The bridges and terraces both offer views of the surrounding hillsides and central plaza. Sculpture is also on display at various points outside the buildings, including on various terraces and balconies. The lower level (the highest of the floors in the base) includes a public cafeteria, the terrace cafe, and the photography galleries.\n\nThe Central Garden at the Getty Center is the work of artist Robert Irwin. Planning for the garden began in 1992, construction started in 1996, and the garden was completed in December 1997.\n\nIrwin was quoted as saying that the Central Garden \"is a sculpture in the form of a garden, which aims to be art.\" Water plays a major role in the garden. A fountain near the restaurant flows toward the garden and appears to fall into a grotto on the north garden wall. The resulting stream then flows down the hillside into the azalea pool. The designers placed rocks and boulders of varying size in the stream bed to vary the sounds from the flowing water. A tree-lined stream descends to a plaza, while the walkway criss-crosses the stream, which continues through the plaza, and goes over a stone waterfall into a round pool. A maze of azaleas floats in the pool, around which is a series of specialty gardens. More than 500 varieties of plant material are used for the Central Garden, but the selection is \"always changing, never twice the same\".\n\nAfter the original design, an outdoor sculpture garden, called the \"Lower Terrace Garden\" was added in 2007 on the west side of the central garden just below the scholar's wing of the GRI building.\n\nThe Getty Research Institute (GRI) is \"dedicated to furthering knowledge and advancing understanding of the visual arts.\" Among other holdings, GRI's research library contains over 900,000 volumes of books, periodicals, and auction catalogs; special collections; and two million photographs of art and architecture. GRI's other activities include exhibitions, publications, and a residential scholars program. At the Getty Center, GRI is to the west of the museum. The round building encircles a landscaped garden and is to the west of the central garden. The main entrance of GRI is connected by a terrace to the main arrival court of the museum, with outdoor sculptures placed along the route. GRI has one art gallery on its entrance level that is open to the public.\n\nMeier also designed three other buildings next to the north promontory and offset at a 22.5 degree angle from the main axis of the museum pavilions. The north-most building is an auditorium. Next to it is the North Building, with the East Building sitting between the North Building and the rotunda. The main entrance to the East Building is flanked by two round silos that hold its elevators. A bridge over a sunken courtyard links the main entrance of the East Building to the main walkway that connects the auditorium and North Buildings to the rotunda. These buildings house the Getty Conservation Institute (GCI), the J. Paul Getty Trust and the Getty Foundation. These buildings are generally closed to the public except for special events held in the auditorium. They are linked to the museum both by landscaped terraces and by an enclosed glass walkway that leads from the main rotunda of the museum.\n\nGCI, which is headquartered at the Getty Center but also has facilities at the Getty Villa, commenced operation in 1985. It \"serves the conservation community through scientific research, education and training, model field projects, and the dissemination of the results of both its own work and the work of others in the field\" and \"adheres to the principles that guide the work of the Getty Trust: service, philanthropy, teaching, and access\". GCI has activities in both art conservation and architectural conservation.\n\nThe Getty Foundation awards grants for \"the understanding and preservation of the visual arts\". In addition, it runs the Getty Leadership Institute for \"current and future museum leaders\". Its offices are north of the museum. The foundation offices are in the two administrative buildings that are north of the museum. The J. Paul Getty Trust, which oversees the Getty Conservation Institute, Getty Foundation, Getty Research Institute, and J. Paul Getty Museum, also has offices there.\n\nAlthough the center's site was thought to have little motion during earthquakes, which are frequent in the Los Angeles area, in 1994, as the center was being constructed, the Northridge earthquake struck. It caused \"disturbing hairline cracks... in the welds and plated joints of the steel framework.\" As a result, the steelwork through the site was retrofitted. The Center's buildings are thought to be able to survive an earthquake of 7.5 magnitude on the Richter scale.\n\nIn the 16 electrical transformers at the center, silicone fluid is used as a coolant \"with less risk of ignition\" than hydrocarbon coolant. The native flammable chaparral was removed and fire-resistant poverty weed was added to the slopes around the center. Each year, a herd of goats is rented to clear brush on the surrounding hills.\n\nAt the north end of the center, a tank with of water, together with a grass-covered helipad, allow helicopters to collect water. The access ramp from the entry plaza to the museum was constructed to allow a fire truck to pass over it. Inside the museum, the sprinkler system is designed to balance \"between the potential damage of a fire and the risk of water damage to valuable artwork\".\n\n", "id": "302318", "title": "Getty Center"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302323", "text": "J. Paul Getty Trust\n\nThe J. Paul Getty Trust has the most money of any art institution in the world. In April 2009, it owns $US 4.2 billion. The Trust's office is in Los Angeles, California. It operates the J. Paul Getty Museum at two locations, the Getty Center in Los Angeles and the Getty Villa in Pacific Palisades district of Los Angeles, California. The Trust's other programs are the Getty Foundation, the Getty Research Institute, and the Getty Conservation Institute.\n\nThe trust operates one of the most visited museums in the United States and gets 1.3 million visitors per year. The trust also provides grants and training to other museums and cultural institutions. The trust has a library, publications program and visiting scholar program. The trust's conservation program works to improve conservation practice through the creation and delivery of knowledge. However, since 2008, the trust has scaled back the scope of its activities in response to financial challenges.\n\nJ. Paul Getty started the J. Paul Getty Museum Trust in 1953. Getty had already started the Getty Oil Company, and he was richest Americans in the 1950's. He had more than $2 billion when he died. Getty died in 1976 He left most of his property, including nearly $660 million worth of stock in Getty Oil, to the J. Paul Getty Museum Trust. Legal conflicts over the will took years to resolve, but in 1982 the trust finally received all of the money that Getty. The trust began to add some new programs in 1982. In February 1983, it changed its name to the J. Paul Getty Trust.\n\nIn 1997, Barry Munitz became the president and CEO of the trust. He began work in January 1998, succeeding Harold M. Williams, the first president of the Getty Trust, who oversaw construction of the $1 billion Getty Center designed by architect Richard Meier. With an endowment of $4.2 billion, the Getty Trust is the wealthiest art institution in the world. Early in his tenure, Munitz reorganized the Getty Trust, closing two of the institution's six programs – the Getty Information Institute and the Getty Education Institute. To deal with long-run financial issues, he sought to cultivate relationships with donors and corporate partners. His leadership became increasingly controversial as the Getty Trust was embroiled in numerous controversies relating to the provenance of various antiquities in the Getty Museum's collections and Munitz' expense account. In the midst of an investigation by the California Attorney General,\nMunitz resigned in 2006 and was forced to \"forgo his severance package of more than $2 million, and reimburse the Getty Trust for $250,000 after alleged improprieties including lavish expense account spending.\"\n\nOn December 4, 2006, the trust hired of art historian James N. Wood, the former Director of the Art Institute of Chicago to be the trust's new president and CEO. Wood replaced Barry Munitz, who was forced to step down earlier in the year. In 2009, the trust's assets dropped in value, and Wood cut nearly 100 employees at the trust's various operations, most at the Getty Museum. Fees for parking at the museum and the Getty Villa were raised by 50% to $15. Wood died suddenly of natural causes on June 12, 2010. In May 2011, the trust hired James Cuno, director of the Art Institute of Chicago as president and chief executive of the Getty Trust, to take office in August.\n\nThe J. Paul Getty Museum is an art museum. It has two locations, one at the Getty Center in Los Angeles, California, and one at the Getty Villa in Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles, California. The museum at the Getty Center contains \"Western art from the Middle Ages to the present;\" its estimated 1.3 million visitors annually makes it one of the most visited museums in the United States. The museum at the Getty Villa contains art from \"ancient Greece, Rome, and Etruria\". The museum started as J. Paul Getty's personal art collection.\n\nThe Getty Foundation was originally called the \"Getty Grant Program,\" which began in 1984 under the direction of Deborah Marrow. The J. Paul Getty Trust can spend up to 0.75% of its endowment on gifts and grants; by 1990 the Getty Grant Program (then based in Santa Monica) had made 530 grants totaling $20 million to \"art historians, conservators and art museums in 18 countries\". For example, a foundation grant funded the restoration of the Cosmati Pavement in the floor of Westminster Abbey. For many years, the foundation conducted the Getty Leadership Institute (GLI). The major GLI program is the Museum Leadership Institute (MLI), formerly known as the Museum Management Institute, which \"has served close to 1,000 museum professionals from the United States and 30 countries worldwide\". However, effective on January 2, 2010, the GLI was transferred to the Claremont Graduate University in Claremont, California and was renamed \"The Getty Leadership Institute at Claremont Graduate University\".\n\nThe Getty Research Institute (GRI), located at the Getty Center in Los Angeles, California, is \"dedicated to furthering knowledge and advancing understanding of the visual arts\". GRI maintains a research library, organizes exhibitions and other events, sponsors a residential scholars program, publishes books, and maintains electronic databases including a Semantic Web service. The GRI was originally called the \"Getty Center for the History of Art and the Humanities\", and was conceived as early as 1983. Among other holdings, GRI's research library contains about 900,000 volumes of books, periodicals, and auction catalogs; special collections; and two million photographs of art and architecture. The library also includes the trust's \"Institutional Archives\" which document the activities of the trust's various programs.\n\nThe Getty Conservation Institute (GCI) is headquartered at the Getty Center but also has facilities at the Getty Villa, and commenced operation in 1985. The GCI is a private international research institution dedicated to advancing conservation practice through the creation and delivery of knowledge. It \"serves the conservation community through scientific research, education and training, model field projects, and the dissemination of the results of both its own work and the work of others in the field\" and \"adheres to the principles that guide the work of the Getty Trust: service, philanthropy, teaching, and access\". GCI has activities in both art conservation and architectural conservation. GCI scientists study the deterioration of objects and buildings, and how to prevent or stop such deterioration. GCI has also been involved with long-term education programs, such as establishing a Master's degree program in Archaeological and Ethnographic Conservation in collaboration with the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nFrom 1983 to June 1999, the Trust ran the Getty Information Institute (GII) which sought to collect electronic information to serve cultural heritage institution and researchers. Together with the American Council of Learned Societies GII sought to build a broad coalition of non-profits to establish a National Initiative for a Networked Cultural Heritage. Upon the dissolution of the GII, its data bases were transferred to the Getty Research Institute.\n\nThe Getty Trust Indenture dated December 2, 1953 made a California charitable trust for \"the diffusion of artistic and general knowledge.\" The trust is governed by a 13-member board of trustees. Trustees are elected to serve four-year terms, with a maximum limit of three terms. The board is self-perpetuating with the board electing or re-electing the trustees. The board holds an annual meeting in May or June of each year. Although the board conducts most of its work through committees, a number of important decisions are reserved for the entire board including approval of any art acquisition costing more than $1 million.\n\nOn October 2, 2006, the California Attorney General issued a report following an investigation of the trust and its operations. At the close of the investigation an independent monitor was hired to assure proper governance and expenditures of the trust. On May 7, 2008, the Attorney General closed the monitoring process.\n\nThe trust was hurt by the economic downturn following 2007 and has reduced its annual budget by 14%. In 2007, the trust had $6.4 billion in endowment, but this amount dropped to $4.5 billion in 2009. In 2009, the trust had $300 million in expenses down from $349 million in 2008. For example, GRI co-produced the Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals with the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library, but transferred that activity to Columbia University on July 1, 2009.\n\n", "id": "302323", "title": "J. Paul Getty Trust"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302324", "text": "Georgetown, Washington, D.C.\n\nGeorgetown is a neighborhood in Washington, D.C., along the Potomac River. Georgetown started as a separate city in 1751 before the area became the District of Columbia. Georgetown stayed a separate city until 1871, when the United States Congress took away its charter. Another law in 1895 canceled Georgetown's laws and renamed the streets to match those in the city of Washington. Today, stores, bars and restaurants in Georgetown are on M Street and Wisconsin Avenue. Georgetown has the main campus of Georgetown University. The embassies of France, Mongolia, Sweden, Thailand, and Ukraine are in Georgetown.\n\nGeorgetown has many historic landmarks including:\n\n\n", "id": "302324", "title": "Georgetown, Washington, D.C."}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302327", "text": "Brentwood (Washington, D.C.)\n\nBrentwood is a neighborhood in Northeast Washington, D.C.. It is named after the Brentwood Mansion built at Florida Avenue and 6th Street NE in 1817 by Robert Brent, the first mayor of Washington City. He built it as a wedding present for his daughter Eleanor and Congressman Joseph Pearson. Brent gave them both the mansion and a large farm surrounding it. Congressman Pearson also purchased additional properties and expanded the estate further. The property then known as Brentwood was larger than the present (2007) neighborhood known as Brentwood. Images of the mansion may be found in the book \"Capital Losses: A Cultural History of Washington's Destroyed Buildings\" by James W. Goode, and in several books in the collection of the Historical Society of Washington, D.C. Edward Sisson, a descendant of the family that owned the mansion throughout its existence, has posted a collection of paintings, drawings, photos, and histories of the mansion on-line. The Frick Art Reference Library (http://www.frick.org/) has drawings, paintings, and perhaps photographs (although none appear to be accessible on-line as of late 2007). On the web, a small drawing of the mansion, together with a brief description of its owners in 1873, Capt. & Mrs. Carlile Pollock Patterson, may be found in \"Washington Outside and Inside\" by George Alfred Townsend, at page 620, searchable as a \"google book.\"\n\nMany people think that Benjamin Latrobe (who designed the United States Capitol) designed Brentwood Mansion. However, at the time of the house's design, Latrobe was suffering family troubles and his records for this period are poor.\n\nDuring the administration of President Ulysses S. Grant (1869-1877), Brentwood Mansion was a center of Washington social life, with many parties hosted by Elizabeth (Eliza) Worthington Patterson (daughter of Joseph Pearson and his third wife Catherine Worthington Pearson) and her husband Carlile Pollock Patterson. Patterson had known Grant since 1852; Patterson's brother-in-law David Dixon Porter, married to Patterson's sister George Ann, was the highest-ranking Admiral in the US Navy; and Patterson's brother Thomas H. Patterson was commander of the Washington Navy Yard (1873-1876) before becoming the Rear Admiral in command of the Asiatic Squadron (1877-1880). Patterson Street, N.E., which is adjacent to the property, was probably named for the Patterson family.\n\nC.P. Patterson, a Naval officer and ship captain turned scientist and administrator of a government department, had neither the interest nor the aptitude to manage the transformation of a large rural farming and forest property into an urbanized part of the city growing around it. After C.P. Patterson's death in 1881, long-delayed financial problems came to a head, and on June 6, 1884, three years after Patterson's death, Congress enacted a private bill, House bill No. 4689, entitled \"An act for the relief of Eliza W. Patterson,\" C.P. Patterson's widow, excusing accumulated District of Columbia property taxes on the Patterson land. President Chester A. Arthur neither signed nor vetoed the bill, but held it ten days and allowed it to become law without his signature. In a message dated June 21, 1884, the President explained \"I do not question the constitutional right of Congress to pass a law relieving the family of an officer, in view of the services he had rendered his country, from the burdens of taxation, but I submit to Congress that this just gift of the nation to the family of such faithful officer should come from the National Treasury rather than from that of this District, and I therefore recommend that an appropriation be made to reimburse the District for the amount of taxes which would have been due to it had this act not become a law.\"\n\nAfter five more years confusion, in March 1889, Patterson's son-in-law, Lt. Francis Winslow (II) USN (oldest brother of future Rear Admiral Cameron Winslow), after 19 years of Naval service during the slow-promotion post-war years, resigned from the Navy to devote himself to subdividing, renting, developing, and selling portions of the property. He was successful. A portion of this property later became the subject of a lawsuit that reached the United States Supreme Court, \"Francis Winslow v. Baltimore & Ohio RR Co.\", 188 U.S. 646 (1903), which includes excerpts of the will by which Mrs. Patterson came into the property on the death of her mother, Catherine Worthington Pearson, in 1868. The suit, which the Patterson/Winslow family won, involved renewal of a lease of some of the land to a railroad. (Winslow (II) also developed an expertise in oysters, having led government surveys in the 1870s, 1880s, and 1890s. A \"google\" search on \"Francis Winslow\" and \"oyster\" returns dozens of \"hits,\" referring to the Francis Winslow who managed the Brentwood property. His work is still cited today (2007) as authoritative and accurate. See: http://www.ocracokepreservation.org/id39.html. Winslow was also a leader of US government survey expeditions in Nicaragua, studying potential routes for a canal to connect the Atlantic and Pacific.).\n\nThe death of Francis Winslow (II) in 1908, suspected to have been caused by illnesses contracted in the Nicaraguan jungle, led to another period of drift in the management of the property as his four sons pursued other careers. In 1917, 100 years after it was built, the vacant Brentwood Mansion burned, and the land became the site of a World War I Army staging camp, Camp Meigs. Three of Francis Winslow (II)'s sons were officers in World War I, and they may have staged in that camp, on their own family land. In 1919 the partially burnt house was finally demolished. Part of the property became the first lumberyard for the building supply and hardware company Hechinger Co., a store that was prominent in Washington into the 1990s.\n\nIn the 1920s, Lt. Winslow's son, Francis Winslow (III), ended his career as a mining engineer and took over active management of the Brentwood Patterson/Winslow land. His most notable achievement was the development of the Union Market. For years called the Florida Avenue Market, it still operates after 80 years as the city's principal wholesale food and produce market. Photographs and a detailed history of this development may be found in an April 24, 2007, District of Columbia planning document, the Florida Avenue Market Study, at http://www.anc6a.org/FLaveMarketStudy.pdf.\n\nIn the early 1940s, the District of Columbia used eminent domain to acquire a large parcel of the Patterson land known as \"square 710\", on which is being built (2007) the new headquarters of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms (200 Florida Avenue, N.E.). Illustrations of the ATF headquarters can be found at http://www.loopnet.com/xNet/MainSite/Listing/Profile/ProfileSE.aspx?LID=15025032&linkcode=10850&sourcecode=1lww2t006a00001. The seizure of square 710 led to a suit by Winslow (III) as trustee, asserting that the compensation offered by the District was inadequate. Winslow won the suit and a judgment for a larger sum, whereupon, according to the family, the District informed him that it simply didn't have the money to pay the larger judgment. Regardless of payment or nonpayment, title had vested in the government. At about this time, Winslow was demoralized by the death of his 17-year-old daughter in a 1946 car accident, and was then diagnosed with cancer. He died in 1948.\n\nHis youngest brother Cameron, an insurance executive in Hartford, CT, stepped in as trustee, but it is unclear whether either Francis or Cameron ever received payment from the government of the court-ordered price of \"square 710.\" If not, there may be the ironic situation of a government law-enforcement agency headquarters located on land for which the government did not comply with the law by paying the lawful price. Cameron Winslow, determining that no one in the next generation appeared interested in managing the property, and unable to manage the properties day-to-day from Hartford, began selling all remaining parts of the property in the 1950s, completing the last of the sales in the 1960s, breaking-up the landed estate that Robert Brent had assembled some 200 years before.\nOver the decades, much of the land was acquired by or donated to Gallaudet University, a prominent school for the deaf. Cogswell Hall, a residence hall of Gallaudet University, is said to be built on the site of the old Brentwood Mansion. According to a website on Washington ghost stories, http://members.aol.com/waniehol/DCplaces.html, students have reported that it is haunted by the spirit of a little girl. Allegedly, blankets have been yanked off, an unplugged alarm clock went off, papers have moved with no draft or breeze, there are feelings of being watched, and at least one student has been tapped awake with no one there.\n\nBrentwood neighborhood as it is today (whose boundaries are somewhat different than the original Brent property, as increased by Pearson) is trapezoidal in its geography. It is bounded by New York Avenue to the south, Montana Avenue to the east, Rhode Island Avenue NE to the north, and the tracks of the Washington Metro's Red Line and Amtrak's Northeast Corridor to the west. It is serviced by the Rhode Island Ave-Brentwood Metro station. Politically, Brentwood is in Ward 5.\n\nBrentwood has the main post office for Washington, D.C. It was the postal mail sorting facility through which anthrax-contaminated mail addressed to two members of the U.S. Senate passed in the 2001 anthrax attacks. The Post Office is now named after Joseph Curseen Jr. and Thomas Morris Jr., who were postal workers who died after exposure to the anthrax in the incident. The 633,000 square foot facility was closed October 21, 2001, because of anthrax contamination and did not reopen until December 21, 2003.\n\nThe area also is the site of a major rapid transit rail maintenance facility of the Washington Metropolitan Area Transportation Authority (WMATA), the principal public transit operator in metropolitan Washington, D.C. It is served by the New York Avenue Metrorail station.\n\n", "id": "302327", "title": "Brentwood (Washington, D.C.)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302338", "text": "Big Van Vader\n\nLeon Allen White (born May 14, 1957 in Lynwood, California) is a retired American professional wrestler. He is better known by the ring name, Big Van Vader.\n\nVader began his wrestling career at the World Heavyweight Championship (AWA) in (1985) and remained on the company for two years until (1987). He then traveled to Japan where he was hired by the New Japan Pro Wrestling. Vader won the final competition between eight men against Shinya Hashimoto and was crowned champion. Then a month after being crowned champion, Vader lost the title to the Russian Hashimikov Salman. Then recovered the titled against the winner of Hashimikov- Riki Choshu, thus becoming World Heavyweight Champion again CWA. Vader continued performing in Europe under the name of Otto Wanz. In 1990, Vader returned to America and was hired by World Championship Wrestling, in WCW Vader got a chance to face Sting in the July 12 event The Great American Bash 1992, where Sting defeated, and Vader and crowned as the new world champion heavyweight WCW. After having bloody battles against Mick Foley, Vader faced none other than Hulk Hogan in 1995. After leaving WCW, Vader returned to Japan in 1996.\n\nIn 1996, Vader was hired by World Wrestling Federation, Vader appeared at WrestleMania XII, in a fight between six Vader, Owen Hart, British Bulldog vs Yokozuna, Ahmed Johnson and Jake Roberts. Vader's team won the match. Vader faced the champion of the WWF Shawn Michaels at SummerSlam in 1996, and then faced The Undertaker in the Royal Rumble.\n\nIn 1998 Vader returned to Japan in All Japan Pro Wrestling, then went to the Pro Wrestling Noah between 2000 and 2002 before being hired by Total Nonstop Action Wrestling. Vader turned to work for the WWE in 2003 performing in several episodes of Raw where he retired from the wrestling in 2006.\n\n\n", "id": "302338", "title": "Big Van Vader"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302343", "text": "Holocephali\n\nHolocephali (\"complete heads\") is a subclass of cartilaginous fish, of which the order Chimaeriformes is the only surviving group. \n\nHolocephali have a long fossil record that starts during the Devonian period. However, most fossils are teeth, and the body forms of numerous species are not known, or, at best, poorly understood. Sequence analysis on living chimaera suggests the whole group originated 420 million years ago in the Silurian period.\n", "id": "302343", "title": "Holocephali"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302345", "text": "Getty Villa\n\nThe Getty Villa in Pacific Palisades, California, USA, is one of two locations of the J. Paul Getty Museum. The Getty Villa is an educational center and museum that covers the arts and cultures of Ancient Greece, Rome, and Etruria. The collection has 44,000 Greek, Roman, and Etruscan antiquities dating from 6,500 BC to 400 AD. The UCLA/Getty Master’s Program in Archaeological and Ethnographic Conservation is here. The online GettyGuide as well as through audio tours tell about the items owned by the museum.\n\nThe collection has 44,000 Greek, Roman, and Etruscan antiquities dating from 6,500 BC to 400 AD. Among the outstanding items is Victorious Youth, one of few life-size Greek bronze statues to have survived to modern times. The Lansdowne Heracles is a Roman sculpture that was probably copied from an older Greek statue. The Villa also has jewelry and coin collections. The Villa's library has 20,000 books covering art from these periods. The Villa also displays the 'Getty kouros', which the museum lists as \"Greek, about 530 B.C., or modern forgery\" because scientific analysis is inconclusive as to whether the marble statue can be dated back to Greek times. If genuine, the Getty kouros is one of only twelve remaining intact kouroi. The Marbury Hall Zeus is a tall marble statue that was recovered from the ruins at Tivoli near Rome.\n\nThe \"GettyGuide\" has detailed information about the items owned by the museum. This is available both at the Museum, at various points known as \"GettyGuide stations\", and externally on its website.\n\n", "id": "302345", "title": "Getty Villa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302349", "text": "Minamisanriku, Miyagi\n\n, also spelled Minami Sanriku, is a resort town on the Pacific Coast of Miyagi Prefecture, Japan.. The town has an area of , and as of October 1, 2004 the population of the area was 19,170. The town was created on October 1, 2005, when the towns of Shizugawa and Utatsu merged to form the new town of Minamisanriku.\n\nMinamisanriku was largely destroyed by the Japanese 2011 tsunami, with most buildings swept away by waves of or more. Over half the town's population is missing and almost certainly dead.\n\n95 percent of the town was destroyed by the 2011 Japanese tsunami that followed the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake. Only the tallest buildings remain and an estimated 9,500 people are missing, roughly half the population. 9,700 people are confirmed alive and evacuated.\n\nThe town had two evacuation centres where residents could go to escape from a tsunami. One was on the southern headland overlooking the town. The other was inland away from the center of the town. Although both were 20 meters above sea level, the tsunami covered them and washed people away. At least 31 of the town's 80 designated evacuation sites were inundated by the tsunami.\n\nOne early report suggests that many residents may have evacuated to the nearby city of Tome, Miyagi. According to an English teacher at the local high school located on a hill above the tsunami, \"The entire town was simply swept away. It just no longer exists. There were around 7,000 of us on the hill that day. Perhaps a few thousand at the school on the hill opposite. But there are 17,000 in the town. All the others have gone.\" Since the schools were all on high ground, many children were orphaned. Survivors wrote \"SOS\" in white lettering, in the playing field of Shizugawa High school.\n\nWhen the earthquake struck, the mayor of the town, Jin Sato (佐藤仁), was talking at the town assembly. They were discussing the much smaller tsunami caused by the March 9 foreshock before the March 11 earthquake. The three-story building of the town's was covered by the tsunami. Out of the 130 people who worked at the town hall, Sato was one of only 30 who reached the roof. He was one of only 10 who survived. He returned to government affairs, founding the headquarters for disaster control at the Bayside Arena on March 13, 2011.\n\nShizugawa hospital was one of the few major buildings that survived the tsunami. However, it was partly flooded, and 74 out of 109 patients died. Close to 200 people were rescued from the roof of the building.\n\nMiki Endo (远藤未希), a 25 year old employee of the town's Crisis Management Department, continued to broadcast warnings and alerts over a community loudspeaker system as the tsunami came in. People believe she saved many lives. The three-storey headquarters of the department remained standing but only the steel frame remained. All of the interior and walls were destroyed. After the disaster, Endo was missing and was later found dead. Photos show the roof of the building completely submerged at the height of the tsunami. Some people held onto an antenna on the roof.\n\nThe town is the site of the first field hospital established by an outside nation offering assistance following the disaster. A team of five doctors from Israel set up a surgery. A 53 member group of medical personnel from the Home Front Command and the IDF’s Medical Corps opened a field hospital near Minamisanriku on March 29. The clinic included surgical, pediatrics and maternity wards, and an intensive care unit, pharmacy and laboratory along with 62 tons of medical supplies. The clinic began treating patients immediately.\n\nOn April 23, 2011, the Prime Minister of Australia Julia Gillard visited Minami Sanriku.\n\nThe Great Chilean Earthquake of 1960 caused a tsunami that crossed the Pacific Ocean and struck the then town of Shizugawa. That tsunami was as high as , At that time, the damage was considered extensive. As a result, two-storey-high harbor walls were built by 1963, and residents held tsunami drills each year on the anniversary. The harbor walls were ineffective in the 2011 tsunami, which washed over four-storey buildings.\n\nTo mark the 30th anniversary in 1990, a bilingual Spanish-Japanese plaque was installed, with a message from President Patricio Aylwin of Chile, accompanied by a replica moai statue. The plaque survived the 2011 tsunami.\n\nThe 2010 Chile earthquake caused a tsunami in Minamisanriku.\n\nThe Kesennuma Line includes the following stops: Rikuzen-Togura, Shizugawa, Shizuhama, Utatsu, and Rikuzen-Minato. Major roads include Route 45 and Route 398.\n\n\n\n", "id": "302349", "title": "Minamisanriku, Miyagi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302361", "text": "Lee Ui-bang\n\nLee Ui-bang (, ? - 1174) was a Korean Goryeo dynasty soldier and politician. His father-in-law was Emperor Kangjong, grandfather of Emperor Goryo Kojong. He was killed by Emperor Uijong in 1170.\n\nIn 1170 Yi joined the Goryeo warrior rebellion. In 1174, he was murdered by Jeong Kyun.\n\nHis Young brother Lee In was 2 Great-grandfather of Yi Seonggye, was Founder of Joseon dynastys.\n\n\n", "id": "302361", "title": "Lee Ui-bang"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302364", "text": "Ivy City, Washington, D.C.\n\nIvy City is a small neighborhood in Northeast Washington, D.C. It is primarily an industrial neighborhood. It is dominated by warehouses and the Ivy City Yard, a railroad coach yard and maintenance facility for Amtrak. The area has undergone some renewal. But Ivy City still remains among the poorest parts of the city.\n\nIvy City is bounded by New York Avenue to the northwest, West Virginia Avenue to the east, and Mt. Olivet Road to the south. The neighborhood is surrounded on all sides by significant landmarks: Gallaudet University (across Mt. Olivet Rd.), Mt. Olivet Cemetery (across West Virginia Ave.), and Amtrak's Ivy City yard (across New York Ave.).\n\nPolitically, Ivy City is in Ward 5.\n\nIvy City is outside of the boundaries of the original Pierre L'Enfant plan for the City of Washington within the District of Columbia.\n\nIn 1831, the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad (B&O) received approval of a plan to build its Washington Branch. Passenger train service between Baltimore and Washington began in 1835. As part of the construction, the railroad company built its last roundhouse (the current Amtrak yard) one mile outside the city limit. The railroad then worked with land speculators to develop the tract immediately next to the roundhouse as \"Ivy City\". Ivy City became an early Washington suburb. It housed railroad employees and give a formal mailing address to the roundhouse.\n\nIvy City became part of the city of Washington with the passage of the Organic Act of 1878, which extended the city to occupy all of the District of Columbia.\n\nOver the years, railroads were one of the few industries to consistently give jobs to African Americans. Ivy City became an increasingly black section of town. In 1911, while Washington DC had separate schools for black and white students, the neighborhood's first colored school, Alexander Crummell Elementary School, opened in Ivy City. The school quickly became a symbol of civic pride in the neighborhood and a major community anchor.\n\nThe economic status of Ivy City went up and down with the economic success of the railroads. After World War II, U.S. rail travel suffered terrible declines due to the rise of the commercial airline industry and the Interstate Highway System. In 1963, B&O was bought by the Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad; the two were combined in the Chessie System in 1973. Three years after that, the Ivy City yard was acquired by the newly created Amtrak, which leased it to commuter rail services.\n\nAmtrak gave some stability to the industrial tenor of the neighborhood. But Ivy City had suffered a lot from the railroad industry's decades-long downturn. Even after Amtrak took over the train yard, Washington entered a period of poor city management and economic blight. This was hard on low-income neighborhoods. Those who could afford to leave Ivy City did; its population decreased by a third in the 1990s.\n\nIvy City remains home to many of the poorest residents of the District. It is largely occupied by old warehouses, abandoned and decrepit homes, and large expanses of parking lots, and crime. By mid-2005, the city's recent trend toward gentrification had only just begun to reach some parts of Ivy City. Only 20 percent of Ivy City residents own their own homes. In 2011, Habitat for Humanity built or rennovated 23 houses in Ivy City.\n\nAmtrak maintains some offices in Ivy City.\n\n", "id": "302364", "title": "Ivy City, Washington, D.C."}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302375", "text": "Left-wing fascism\n\nLeft-wing fascism or left fascism is fascism of the leftist nature. The first criticism has been raised, German philosopher Jürgen Habermas by the 1960s.\n\n\n", "id": "302375", "title": "Left-wing fascism"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302379", "text": "Gacy (movie)\n\nGacy is a 2003 American biographical crime drama movie directed by Clive Saunders and written by Saunders and David Birke. The movie is based on the life of John Wayne Gacy, an American rapist and serial killer in Illinois. The movie was rated \"R\" by the Motion Picture Association of America, and stars Mark Holton as John Wayne Gacy.\n\n\n \n", "id": "302379", "title": "Gacy (movie)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302380", "text": "Dear Mr. Gacy\n\nDear Mr. Gacy is a 2010 Canadian crime drama movie thriller directed by Svetozar Ristovski. The movie stars William Forsythe as American serial killer John Wayne Gacy. It is based on a book by Jason Moss, \"The Last Victim\". The movie was rated \"R\" by the Motion Picture Association of America.\n\n", "id": "302380", "title": "Dear Mr. Gacy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302386", "text": "Getty Foundation\n\nThe Getty Foundation awards grants for \"the understanding and preservation of the visual arts\". It is based in Los Angeles, California, at the Getty Center. In the past, it funded the Getty Leadership Institute for \"current and future museum leaders\", which is now at Claremont Graduate University. Its budget for 2006-07 was budget of $27.8 million. It is part of the J. Paul Getty Trust.\n\nThe Foundation was originally called the \"Getty Grant Program.\" That program began in 1984 under the direction of Deborah Marrow. The J. Paul Getty Trust can spend up to 0.75% of its endowment on gifts and grants; by 1990 the Getty Grant Program (then based in Santa Monica) had made 530 grants totaling $20 million to \"art historians, conservators and art museums in 18 countries\". Among notable grants of the Program were grants to partially fund the publication of books, for example to \"provide for additional illustrations or allow a book's purchase price to be lowered\". Some books \"published with the assistance of the Getty Grant Program\" were:\nIn 1998, the Program granted $750,000 for electronic cataloging to art museums in the Los Angeles area. The program awarded $180,000 in 1999 to the National Gallery in Prague to digitize images of works of art in its collections. In 2005, the program awarded the University of California, Los Angeles and to the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston almost $400,000 to \"support the documentation and preservation of Latino and Latin American art\".\n\nThe name of the Getty Grant Program was changed to \"Getty Foundation\" in 2005 to \"better reflect[] the expanded scope of the Getty's grant-making over the past two decades and reaffirm[] its commitment to philanthropy going forward\". Grants made by the Foundation include funding the Multicultural Undergraduate Internship Program, begun in 1993, \"seeks to increase staff diversity within visual arts organizations\" in Los Angeles County. Between 2002 and 2007, the Foundation expended over $13.5 million to fund \"plans to care for, maintain, and preserve... historic resources\" at 86 United States colleges and universities. In 2006, the Foundation committed $3.5 million to restore an 80 by 100 foot \"America Tropical\" mural on Olvera Street in Los Angeles that was painted by David Alfaro Siqueiros. In 2006, in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina, the Foundation announced a $2 million fund \"to aid New Orleans's visual arts organizations\".\n\nAs of June 2008, the Foundation has four priorities for grants:\n\nIn the summer of 2011, the foundation is funding Multicultural Undergraduate Internships at 70 Los Angeles-area museums and visual arts organizations. The internships seek to attract into museum and visual arts organizations students from historically underrepresented groups: people of African American, Asian, Latino/Hispanic, Native American, and Pacific Islander descent.\n\nThe Foundation also sponsors the Getty Leadership Institute (GLI). The major GLI program is the Museum Leadership Institute (MLI). The MLI was formerly known as the Museum Management Institute. It \"has served close to 1,000 museum professionals from the United States and 30 countries worldwide\". It offers a three-week curriculum for \"museum directors and senior executive team members\", with instruction in areas such as \"strategy, marketing, management and finance\". Most of the attendees work in art museums; among the executives who attended the MLI were the directors of the Frick Collection, San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, Van Gogh Museum, and Winnipeg Art Gallery.\n\nIn addition to the MLI, GLI offers other professional development programs, convenes meetings involving non-profit agencies, and hosts an online forum. The GLI began in 1979 with a headquarters in New York City and classes taught at the University of California Berkeley. From 1999 to 2009, the program was headquartered at the Getty Center in Los Angeles, California. In 2004, classes moved from Berkeley to the Getty Center. In 2010, the GLI affiliated with Claremont Graduate University in Claremont, California and was renamed The Getty Leadership Institute at Claremont Graduate University. After the transfer, the foundation supports the GLI with a three-year, $2.2 million grant, but the program is headquartered on the Claremont campus. Claremont is paying for GLI's indirect costs. Although the transfer took effect on January 2, 2010, the 2010 MLI was held at the Getty Center. The 2011 MLI will be held on the Claremont campus.\n\nThe Foundation's senior staff includes:\nDeborah Marrow, who was Foundation Director, now serves as interim president and CEO of the J. Paul Getty Trust.\n\nDuring the period July 2006 - June 2007, the Foundation had approximately 30 full-time and part-time employees, and a budget of $27.8 million.\n\nThe Getty Foundation should not be confused with the \"Ann and Gordon Getty Foundation,\" which is based in San Francisco, California, and which awards grants largely \"to promote the fields of music, the opera, and the symphony\".\n\n", "id": "302386", "title": "Getty Foundation"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302414", "text": "Getty Conservation Institute\n\nThe Getty Conservation Institute (GCI), in Los Angeles, California, is a program of the J. Paul Getty Trust. It is headquartered at the Getty Center but also has facilities at the Getty Villa. It commenced operation in 1985. The GCI is a private international research institution dedicated to advancing conservation practice through the creation and delivery of knowledge. It \"serves the conservation community through scientific research, education and training, model field projects, and the dissemination of the results of both its own work and the work of others in the field\" and \"adheres to the principles that guide the work of the Getty Trust: service, philanthropy, teaching, and access.\" GCI works in both art conservation and architectural conservation.\n\nGCI conducts scientific research related to art conservation. It offers formal education and training programs. GCI published a number of scholarly books. GCI pays for field projects around the world to preserve cultural heritage.\n\nGCI scientists study the decay of objects and buildings, and how to prevent or stop such decay. One of many projects in this area involved the effect of outdoor and indoor air pollutants on museum collections. Another project analyzed the cause of deterioration of the sandstone in the original National Capitol Columns now at the United States National Arboretum.\n\nIn addition, GCI \"conducts scientific research on materials' composition.\" For example, a project on the conservation of photographs has as one of its objectives the creation of an \"Atlas of Analytical Signatures of Photographic Processes\" which will provide \"a precise chemical fingerprint of all the 150 or so ways pictures have been developed.\" As a part of that project, Getty scientists once examined the world's first photograph from nature by Nicéphore Niépce. Using X-ray fluorescence spectroscopy, reflectance Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and other techniques during the 2002-2003 project, they found (for example) that bitumen of Judea was present in the image.\n\nTraining of conservation works is an important part of GCI's work. For example, GCI collaborated with other organizations to create a course \"to assist museum personnel in safeguarding their collections from the effects of natural and human-made emergencies.\" Also, GCI developed a course on the \"Fundamentals of the Conservation of Photographs\" which is now taught in eastern Europe by the Academy of Fine Arts and Design in Bratislava and the Slovak National Library. Besides courses and workshops, GCI has also been involved with long-term education programs, such as establishing a Master's degree program in Archaeological and Ethnographic Conservation in collaboration with the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nGCI workers travel to other places to protect items important to history (field projects).\nGCI's field projects are \"selected based on how they fit the institute's goals of raising public awareness, contributing new, broadly applicable information to the field, and supporting cultural heritage\" and \"must be executed in collaboration with partners… who must be serious about their efforts… so that projects are assured of continuing after the Getty's involvement ceases.\" Among other completed GCI field projects were efforts to preserve the Mogao Caves and Yungang Grottoes in China (announced in 1989); to restore prehistoric rock paintings of Sierra de San Francisco in Baja California Sur (1994); and to protect ancient buildings and archaeological sites in Iraq following the start of the Iraq war (2004).\n\nIt has been stated that \"perhaps the institute's most profound contribution to conservation is the dissemination of information and methods learned in the field.\" GCI spreads information in conferences; lectures; books; and online publications, newsletters, video, and audio.\n\nThe following are selected books published by GCI:\n\nHere is a selection of courses by GCI:\n\nSince GCI was established, it has had three directors. Besides the director, the GCI senior staff includes:\nIn 2009, GCI had a $33 million budget. This is less than the $41 million budget for 2008.\n\nIn addition to the work of the GCI, the J. Paul Getty Trust contributes to the conservation field through the J. Paul Getty Museum conservation departments, the conservation collection in the library at the Getty Research Institute, and conservation grants provided by the Getty Foundation.\n\n", "id": "302414", "title": "Getty Conservation Institute"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302418", "text": "Getty Research Institute\n\nThe Getty Research Institute (GRI), at the Getty Center in Los Angeles, California, is \"dedicated to furthering knowledge and advancing understanding of the visual arts\". It is a program of the J. Paul Getty Trust. GRI maintains a research library, organizes exhibitions and other events, sponsors a residential scholars program, publishes books, and produces electronic databases.\n\nThe GRI was originally called the \"Getty Center for the History of Art and the Humanities\", and was first discussed in 1983. Located in Santa Monica, its first director (beginning in 1985) was Kurt W. Forster. GRI's library had 30,000 volumes in 1983, but grew to 450,000 volumes by 1986.\n\nIn a statement upon his departure in 1992, Forster summarized his tenure as \"Beginning with the rudiments of a small museum library... the center grew... to become one of the nation's preeminent research centers for arts and culture...\". In 1994, Salvatore Settis, a professor of the history of classical art and archeology in Italy, became the director of the Center. By 1996, the Center's name had been changed to \"Getty Research Institute for the History of Art and the Humanities\", and by 1999 it was known simply as \"Getty Research Institute\".\n\nOne GRI's special projects was \"L.A. as Subject: The Transformative Culture of Los Angeles Communities\" conducted between 1995 and 1999, whose purposes included \"enhanc[ing] existing resources and develop new resources that support new research scholarship on LA and also encourag[ing] the preservation, conservation, and display of local material culture\". GRI worked with other local organizations to publish \"Cultural Inheritance/L.A.: A Resource Directory of Less Visible Archives and Collections in the Los Angeles Region\" in 1999. In 2000, the \"L.A. as Subject\" project was transferred to the University of Southern California. That school continues to update and expand an online version of the resource directory.\n\nThe Getty Information Institute (formerly the Art History Information Program, established in 1983) was dissolved in 1999 as a \"result of a change of leadership at the Getty Trust\". GRI absorbed \"many of its functions\".\n\nIn 2000, Thomas E. Crow was hired as GRI director to replace Settis who had resigned in 1999. Crow announced in October 2006 that he would be leaving for New York University. Since November 2007 Thomas W. Gaehtgens has been GRI's director; he was previously (1985–1986) a visiting scholar with the Getty Center for the History of Art and the Humanities.\n\nAmong other holdings, GRI's research library owns about 900,000 volumes of books, periodicals, and auction catalogs; special collections; and two million photographs of art and architecture. The library is at the Getty Center. It does not loan its items to be taken out of the library. However, any visitor can come to the library to use items there.\n\nGRI holds three public art shows (exhibitions) per year in its gallery which \"focus primarily on the special collections of the Research Library or on work produced by artists in residence\". For example, in 2005–2006 GRI held an exhibition entitled \"Julius Shulman, Modernity and the Metropolis\". The exhibition traveled to the National Building Museum and to the Art Institute of Chicago.\n\nIn addition to exhibitions, GRI has lectures (open to the public), colloquia (most open to the public), workshops (by invitation only), and screenings of films and videos (open to the public).\n\nThe GRI hires people who work at other art museums and colleges to work for a year at GRI. After the year is over, the people go back to their old jobs. The goal is to help spread ideas between people who work for different art museums. The residential scholars program seeks to \"integrate the often isolated territory of art history into the wider sphere of the humanities\". The first class of scholars arrived in 1985–1986; they had their salaries paid for and their housing provided but were under \"absolutely no obligation to produce\". Among the notable scholars was German writer Christa Wolf in 1993–1994, who wrote the novel \"Medea: a modern retelling\" during her year at GRI.\n\nEach year the scholars are invited to work on projects related to an annual theme. In 2008–2009, the theme for the Getty Center was \"Networks and Boundaries\" and for the Getty Villa \"The Power and Function of Ancient Images\". The lengths of stay vary: Getty scholars are in residence for three, six or nine months, visiting scholars for one to three months, and predoctoral and postdoctoral fellows for a nine month academic year. In 2011-12, the theme is \"Artistic Practice\".\n\nGRI publishes \"Series Imprints\" books in the categories of \"Issues and Debates\", \"Texts & Documents\", \"Introduction To\" (on \"cultural heritage information in electronic form\"), and \"ReSources\" (on the library's special collections). In addition, GRI publishes exhibition catalogs and other materials in hardcopy form.\n\nThis is a list of some of the books published by GRI, by the Getty Research Institute for the History of Art and the Humanities, by the Getty Center for the History of Art and the Humanities, by the Getty Information Institute, or by the Art History Information Program:\n\nGRI continues to produce some of the electronic databases from the former Getty Information Institute. They are:\n\nIn 2006, GRI and the OCLC Online Computer Library Center announced that the Getty Vocabularies (Art & Architecture Thesaurus, Getty Thesaurus of Geographic Names, and Union List of Artist Names) will be available as a Web service.\n\nUntil July 1, 2009, the Getty Information Institute and later GRI co-produced the Avery Index to Architectural Periodicals with the Avery Architectural and Fine Arts Library. On that date, GRI transferred the database back to Columbia University, which continues to maintain it.\n\nGRI's senior staff includes:\n\nDuring the period July 2006 – June 2007, GRI had approximately 200 full-time and part-time employees. Its budget was $63.7 million.\n\n", "id": "302418", "title": "Getty Research Institute"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302421", "text": "Wyomia Tyus\n\nWyomia Tyus (pronunciation: \"why-o-ma\"; born August 29, 1945 in Griffin, Georgia, United States) is an American athlete. She was the first person to win and keep the Olympic title in the 100 m. She participated in the 1964 Summer Olympics at age 19. In the heats of the event, she equalled Wilma Rudolph's World Record. She was in a good position for the final. Her main rival was another American, Edith McGuire. Tyus won the final, beating McGuire by two tenths of a second. At the same Olympics, she also won a silver medal with the 4 x 100 m relay team.\n\nTyus continued to compete and won national championships in sprint events and a gold medal in the 200 m at the Pan-American Games. In 1968, she returned to the Olympics to defend her title in the 100 m. In the final, she set a new World Record of 11.08 seconds. She became the first woman to hold the Olympic 100 m title through a second Olympic Games. Tyus also finished sixth in the 200 m. She ran the final leg for the relay team and helped set a new World Record. Winning the relay was her third gold medal.\n\nTyus retired from amateur sports after the 1968 Olympics. She became a member of the National Track & Field Hall of Fame in 1980 and the U.S. Olympic Hall of Fame in 1985.\n\n", "id": "302421", "title": "Wyomia Tyus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302425", "text": "Willie Mosconi\n\nWilliam Joseph Mosconi (; June 27, 1913 – September 12, 1993) was an American professional pool (pocket billiards) player from Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He is best known as Willie Mosconi. Between 1941 and 1957, he won the World Straight Pool Championship 15 times--more than any other player. He was one the first people to become a member of the Billiard Congress of America Hall of Fame. Mosconi created many trick shots that he used often. He set many records and helped make pool a popular recreation activity.\n", "id": "302425", "title": "Willie Mosconi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302434", "text": "Yuri Lyubimov\n\nYuri Petrovich Lyubimov (September 30, 1917 – October 5, 2014) is a Soviet and Russian actor and director, founder of the internationally-renowned Taganka Theatre. He is one of the leading names in the Russian theatre world. \n\nAfter service in the Soviet Army during the World War II, Lyubimov joined the Vakhtangov Theatre. In 1953, he received the \"USSR State Prize\". Lyubimov started teaching in 1963 and formed the Taganka Theatre the following year. Under Lyubimov, the theatre became the most popular in Moscow, with Vladimir Vysotsky and Alla Demidova as the leading actors. \n\nAfter Vysotsky's death in 1980, all of Lyubimov's productions were banned by the Communist authorities. In 1984, he was stripped of Soviet citizenship. Thereupon Lyubimov worked abroad before returning to the Taganka Theatre in 1989. While in the West he maintained a busy directing career. In the US he directed \"Crime and Punishment\" at Arena Stage and \"Lulu\" at the Lyric Opera of Chicago. In 1983 he directed \"Crime and Punishment\" in London, winning the Evening Standard Award for Best Director.\n\nHis staging of \"Eugene Onegin\" premiered in the Taganka on his 85th birthday to much critical acclaim.\n\nIn June, 2011 Lyubimov left the Taganka theatre. \n\nLyubimov died at 97 after being admitted to the Botkin Clinic in Moscow with heart failure.\n\n\n", "id": "302434", "title": "Yuri Lyubimov"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302460", "text": "8213: Gacy House\n\n8213: Gacy House is a 2010 horror movie. It was directed by Dan T. Hall. The plot follows paranormal investigators searching a house that was built on the land of serial killer John Wayne Gacy.\n\n", "id": "302460", "title": "8213: Gacy House"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302464", "text": "Jeong Mong-Ju\n\nJeong Mong-ju (, Hanja:鄭夢周, 1337 - April 1392) was a Korean Goryo Dynasty politician, writer, poet and thinker. The last Prime Minister of Goryo Dynastys 1390 to 1392. He was murdered by Lee Bang-won (이방원) and Jo yeong-mu (조영무), in Sunjukkyo (선죽교). Another name was 'Mongran' (몽란, 夢蘭) and 'Mongryong' (몽룡, 夢龍), nickname was Poeun (포은, 圃隱). Best friends and rival of Jeong Do-jeon.\n\n\n\n", "id": "302464", "title": "Jeong Mong-Ju"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302465", "text": "Jeong Do-jeon\n\nJeong Do-jeon (, Hanja:鄭夢周, 1337(?) - August 26 1398) was a Korean Goryo Dynasty politician, educators and Joseon Dynasty politician, educator, writer, poet and thinker. First Prime minister of Joseon Dynastys 1392 to 1398. In 1398 he was murdered by Lee Bang-won. Another name was 'Jongji'(종지, 宗之), nickname was Sambong(삼봉, 三峯).\n\nBest Friends and Political Rival of Jeong Mong-ju\n\n\n\n", "id": "302465", "title": "Jeong Do-jeon"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302469", "text": "Swing (seat)\n\nA swing is a hanging seat. It is usually found in a playground for children. Acrobats in a circus can also have swings which hang from the top of the tent. Sometimes chairs in gardens are made to swing gently.\n\nThe seat of a swing is suspended from chains or ropes. The child sits on the swing and kicks off from the ground with his feet. The swing then starts to swing to and fro. The child can make the swing go higher by pulling (as he goes forwards) and pushing (as he goes backwards) the rope and by making his legs straight as it goes up. Once a swing is in motion it continues to oscillate like a pendulum until something brings it to a halt.\n\nIn children's playgrounds some swings are made for very young children. They have safety bars with holes for the legs. Their parents can push them to help the swing. At the highest point on a swing, the person sitting on it is weightless.\n\nUsually the ground is made of a soft material so that they do not hurt themselves too much if they fall off, although this should not happen if they are being sensible. Sometimes several swings are hung from one long metal or wooden frame.\n\nMany children have swings in their own gardens or back yards. A tyre (or tire) can be hung by a rope from the branch of a tree to make a swing.\n", "id": "302469", "title": "Swing (seat)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302471", "text": "Suzuka, Mie\n\nAs of 2008, the city has an estimated population of 197,437 and the density of 1,010 people per km². The total area is 194.67 km².\n\nAbout 83 km east from Nara, and 52 km southwest from Nagoya.\n\nIn the Edo period, \"Ishiyakushi-juku\" and \"Shōno-juku\" were 44th and 45th of the 53 shogunate-maintained waystations (\"shuku-eki\") along the Tōkaidō road which connected Edo and Kyoto. Both Tōkaidō rest stops are within the boundaries of modern Suzuka.\n\nIn December 1942, two towns and twelve villages were merged to form Suzuka. It was a military administered city, and had a population of 52,000. After World War II, many automotive companies and other industries moved into Suzuka.\n\nSuzuka is by the Suzuka Quasi National Park (the boundary between Suzuka and Shiga). Since the industrial boom, it has been a interchange point for the main commuter train lines. With the mix of commuters passing through Suzuka city, the local dialect (\"hōgen\") is a mixture of three, variations of Japanese. \n\nSuzuka has a significant industrial base. It has large factories for both Sharp and Honda. \n\nSuzuka Circuit was the home of the Japanese Grand Prix from 1987 to 2006. \n\nThe Grand Prix returned in 2009 and the racing continues through the present. \n\nIt was the only figure-of-eight circuit in the championship, and is very popular with the drivers. \n\nNext to the circuit is the Honda Safety Riding/Driving School. Thousands of car and motorcycle drivers have been trained at the school. Graduates include many police officers and instructors throughout the world.\n\n\n", "id": "302471", "title": "Suzuka, Mie"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302473", "text": "Yeongam\n\nYeongam is a county in South Jeolla Province of South Korea. It borders Mokpo and Naju to the north, Jangheung County to the east, and Haenam and Gangjin to the south. Yeongam county contains two towns, called \"eups\", and nine townships, called \"myeons\". The populated is about 60,000 people, and the county hall is seated in Yeongam-eup.\n\nIn 2010, the first ever Korean Grand Prix was held next to the harbor, at the Korean International Circuit. The track was designed by Hermann Tilke. The circuit is part permanent, part temporary. Construction began in 2007, and was completed in September/October 2010. The circuit will host the Grand Prix until 2016. After that, a 5 year option would have to be picked up to keep the race until at least 2021.\n\n\n", "id": "302473", "title": "Yeongam"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302477", "text": "Alienation\n\nAlienation is the feeling of being left out, not belonging or not understanding yourself in relation to your environment. Alienation can be talked about in many ways. In psychology, researchers talk about alienation in terms of how well or unwell people fit in to their social groups. This may include how well people relate to their peers in a school or workplace, and how connected they feel to those around them.\n\nIn sociology, alienation is a more complex and difficult idea. Alienation is how people understand themselves in relation to their entire society. A good example of this is how people think of themselves when they are working and doing a job. Karl Marx wrote about this. This kind of alienation happens when people do work that they are not interested in or find boring. However, in almost all societies some people may have to do jobs that they don't like because they need to earn money. This can be seen as a type of alienation because a person's true feelings and their actions are separated and unrelated. On the other hand, a person might feel empowered and connected if they do a job that they do like. Empowerment and the feeling of being connected is the opposite of alienation.\n\nAlienation is also a key element in the existentialism of Sartre and Camus. The connection between these ideas is the theme of Colin Wilson's \"The Outsider\" (1956). Anomie is another related idea.\n", "id": "302477", "title": "Alienation"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302480", "text": "State University of New York\n\nThe State University of New York, abbreviated SUNY (), is a system of public institutions of higher education in New York, United States. It is the largest comprehensive system of universities, colleges, and community colleges in the world. It has a total enrollment of 465,000 students, plus 1.1 million adult education students. SUNY has 64 campuses in different places in New York State. The SUNY system has 88,000 faculty members. It awards 7,660 different degree and certificates. The annual budget of SUNY is $10.7 billion. SUNY includes many institutions and four University Centers: Albany (1844), Binghamton (1946), Buffalo (1846), and Stony Brook (1957). SUNY's administrative offices are in Albany.\n\nSUNY comprises all institutions of higher education (above 12th grade) in New York State that are state-supported, but the City University of New York (CUNY) are not a part of SUNY. CUNY receives money from both SUNY and from New York City.\n\nThe first colleges in New York State were established privately, with some arising from local seminaries. New York State has a long history of supported higher education prior to the start of the SUNY system in 1948. On May 7, 1844, the State legislature voted to establish New York State Normal School in Albany as the first college for teacher education. In 1865 New York created Cornell University as its land grant college. New York began direct financial support of Cornell's statutory colleges in 1894. From 1889 to 1903, Cornell operated the New York State College of Forestry, until the Governor vetoed its annual appropriation. The school was moved to Syracuse University in 1911. It is now the State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry. In 1908, the State legislature began the NY State College of Ceramics at Alfred University.\n\nIn 1946-48, the Governor appointed a Temporary Commission on the Need for a State University. It was chaired by Owen D. Young, then-Chairman of the General Electric Company. The Commission studied New York's existing higher education institutions and recommended consolidating them into a state university system. While Thomas E. Dewey was Governor, the state legislature established The State University of New York in 1948. The new law followed the commission's recommendations. The system was greatly expanded during the administration of Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller, who took a personal interest in the design and construction of new SUNY facilities across the state.\n\nOn October 8, 1953, SUNY took a historic step of banning national fraternities and sororities that discriminated based on race or religion from its 33 campuses. Various fraternities challenged this rule in court. As a result, national organizations felt pressured to open their membership to students of all races and religions.\n\nSUNY is governed by a Board of Trustees, which consists of sixteen members, fifteen of whom are appointed by the Governor, with consent of the New York State Senate. The sixteenth member is the President of the SUNY Student Assembly. The Board of Trustees appoints the Chancellor who serves as SUNY Chief Executive Officer. The SUNY Chancellor is Nancy L. Zimpher.\n\nThe state of New York assists in financing the SUNY system, which, along with CUNY, provides lower-cost college-level education to residents of the state. SUNY students also come from out-of-state and 171 foreign countries. Out of state and foreign students pay more tuition than do students from New York State.\nAlthough tuition is higher for these non-resident students, their tuition is subsidized by New York State taxpayer dollars. \n\nFor the 2010-2011 academic year, tuition costs at SUNY schools for an undergrad degree are less than two-thirds the cost of most other state run college institutions in the U.S. \nTuition at the State University of New York at Buffalo for an undergraduate degree is $7,772.75 per semester or $15,545.50 per year for non-resident students. \nUndergrad tuition for non-resident students at the University of Maryland is $24,830.44 per year. \nNon-resident tuition and fees at University of Oregon are $25,830.00 per year. \n\nThere are a large variety of colleges in the SUNY system with some overlap in specialties from site to site. SUNY divides its campuses into four distinct categories: university centers/doctoral-granting institutions, university colleges, technology colleges, and community colleges. SUNY also has a unique relationship with its statutory colleges which embeds state-funded colleges within other institutions such as Cornell University and Alfred University. Students at the statutory colleges have the benefit of state-subsidized tuition while receiving all of the campus life amenities of the host institutions.\n\nSUNY and the City University of New York are entirely different university systems. (However, both are public institutions which receive funding from New York State.) Also, SUNY is not to be confused with the University of the State of New York (USNY), which is the governmental umbrella organization for most education-related institutions and many education-related personnel (both public and private) in New York State, and which includes, as a component, the New York State Education Department.\n\nIn the 1970s, students asked for voting representation on the governing boards of SUNY colleges. In 1971, the State Legislature added five student voting members to Cornell's Board of Trustees. In 1975, the legislature added a non-voting student seat to the boards of all SUNY units. Two Attorney General of the State of New York opinion letters reduced the parliamentary rights of the student members to participate at meetings. These documents indicated that the student members were not in fact Public Officers. For this reason the Attorney General said the students might be taken to court for their decisions. In 1977, another statutory amendment made student members of SUNY councils and boards subject to the NYS Public Officers Law or NYS General Municipal Law and granted student representatives parliamentary powers of moving or seconding motions and of placing items on the agendas of the bodies. Finally, the legislature gave full voting rights to the student members in 1979, resulting in the students of all SUNY units having voting representatives, except for the NYS College of Environmental Science and Forestry. Finally, in 1986, the legislature gave the student representative of that college voting rights as well.\n\n\n\nThe Institute for Community College Development (ICCD) operates leadership ability assessment programs. It also provides leadership skills development. ICCD's programs are open to administrators, faculty and trustees of SUNY's community colleges. The ICCD also conducts two \"Successful Teaching Conferences\" each year for developing community college faculty skills. ICCD is a part of the New York State School of Industrial and Labor Relations.\n\n", "id": "302480", "title": "State University of New York"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302488", "text": "Josef Hickersberger\n\nJosef Hickersberger(born 27 April 1948 in Amstetten, Austria) is a former Austrian football midfielder. He is now football manager. He was two times coach of the Austrian national footballteam.\n\nHe started playing professional football in 1966 for FK Austria Wien. After six seasons he went to Germany playing for Kickers Offenbach and Fortuna Düsseldorf. Coming back to Austria he played for Wacker Innsbruck and later for SK Rapid Wien. After finishing as professional he played for the amateur squads of Badener AC, UFC Pama, SV Forchtenstein and WSV Traisen. In Traisen he had his first time as coach. He played 372 matches in the leagues of Austria and Germany scoring 71 goals.\n\nHe played 39 matches for the Austrian national football team and scored five goals. His first match was versus Romania. His last match was the 3:2 win versus Germany during the 1978 FIFA World Cup.\nHe was the coach of the Austrian national football team during the 1990 FIFA World Cup and the 2008 UEFA European Championship. After losing a qualifying match versus the Faroe Islands he resigned and coached Fortuna Düsseldorf and Austria Wien. The years between 1994 and 2004 he spent in the Arabian region coaching various club teams and national teams. 2002 he went back to Austria and became coach of SK Rapid Wien. In this time Rapid won the first championship since 1995. The team also qualified for the UEFA Champions league. 2006 he became again coach of the Austrian soccer team and played in the EURO 2008. After the event he resigned and went back to Arabia.\n", "id": "302488", "title": "Josef Hickersberger"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302490", "text": "State University of New York Upstate Medical University\n\nThe State University of New York Upstate Medical University is a State University of New York university of health sciences in the University Hill district of Syracuse, New York, USA. Its main campus includes the College of Medicine, College of Nursing, College of Health Related Professions, School of Graduate Studies, Graduate Program in Public Health, and University Hospital of Syracuse and Binghamton, as well as a student center and residences.\n\nIt teaches at Binghamton Hospital and 22 other hospitals throughout central New York. Upstate also has numerous partnerships, including a joint PhD Program in Biomedical Engineering with Syracuse University; science enrichment programs for local youth in tandem with the SC Hope Clinic; and the SUNY ESF.\n\nUpstate directly generates 10,117 jobs, making it the Central New York's largest employer. \n\nThe present-day university's earliest predecessor was Geneva Medical College founded 1834 as part of Geneva College, today known as Hobart and William Smith Colleges. The new medical college was located in Geneva, New York, and became the first college to grant a full M.D. to a woman, Elizabeth Blackwell in 1849. In 1871, the college was disbanded and its assets donated to the recently-founded Syracuse University, which subsequently founded a medical college.\n\nIn 1950, Syracuse University sold the college to the State University of New York (SUNY) for only $1. It has been owned by SUNY since then. At first the school was named \"SUNY Upstate Medical Center\" and later named \"SUNY Health Science Center at Syracuse\" in 1986. The current name was adopted in 1999.\n\nA clinical campus in Binghamton, New York for third and fourth year medical students was established in 1979.\n\nA plaque in the lobby of Weiskotten Hall aptly describes one of the institution's driving philosophies:\n\"Dedicated to all those of scientific and technological mind who purpose to serve humanity.\"\nThe university's main campus is located in downtown Syracuse, New York flanking Interstate 81. It includes the University Hospital, the Institute for Human Performance, Setnor Academic Building, Central New York Gamma Knife Center, Jacobsen Hall, Regional Oncology Center, Upstate Golisano Children's Hospital, Weiskotten Hall (which includes the Health Sciences Library), and Clark Tower dormitory for 170 students.\n\nA clinical campus in Binghamton, New York teaches third and fourth year medical students. Some students spend their first two years of medical school in Syracuse, New York and then complete their training in Binghamton. Other students stay in Syracuse for all four years.\n\nThe College of Medicine is one of the oldest medical schools in New York. It has the highest percentage of non-white students of any medical school in the state. More physicians practicing in Central New York received their training at Upstate than at any other medical school. Upstate also ranks eighth nationally for the number of graduates who are on the faculty of a academic medical center in the United States.\n\nThe Colleges of Nursing and Health Related Professions also important to Central New York. The College of Nursing is the only nursing school in New York to offer graduate programs in all major tracks: nurse practitioner, clinical nurse specialist, nurse midwifery, and nurse anesthesia. Approximately three-fourths of its students are minorities.\n\nThe College of Health Related Professions is the gateway for students seeking to enter some of the most competitive and highly paid careers in healthcare today: physician assistant, physical and occupational therapy, medical informatics, diagnostic medical imaging, and midwifery. The college is particularly proud of its historic claim to having the oldest midwifery program in the nation.\n\nThe School of Graduate Studies is known for its excellence in basic science education and research. Students have the opportunity to work side by side with many of the top neuroscientists and basic researchers in the country.\n\nThe university operates the Southern Tier Center on Aging in conjunction with the SUNY Binghamton. The Center develops, implements and evaluates new interventions and models of service delivery geared to enhancing quality of life of older adults and their caregivers.\n\nThe current president is David Smith, MD.\n\n\n", "id": "302490", "title": "State University of New York Upstate Medical University"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302491", "text": "Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia\n\nThe Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia (translates to \"united self-defense groups of Colombia\", officially called United Self-Defense Forces of Colombia in English) is a gorping of far-right paramilitary organisations in Colombia. The group was founded in 1977, from several independent groups active in the 1960s and 1970s. Their official goal is to support the guerilla active in Colombia, the FARC and ELN, in military affairs. They are among the main actors of the armed conflict in Colombia. In Colombia, the European Union and the United States the AUC is considered to be an terrorist organisation.\n", "id": "302491", "title": "Autodefensas Unidas de Colombia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302493", "text": "Brian Dennehy\n\nBrian Mannion Dennehy (born July 9, 1938 in Bridgeport, Connecticut) is an American actor, director, and producer. Dennehy has acted in many movies, such as \"First Blood\", \"A Real American Hero\", and \"To Catch a Killer\".\n", "id": "302493", "title": "Brian Dennehy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302498", "text": "Sapotaceae\n\nSapotaceae is a family of flowering plants, belonging to order Ericales. The family includes approximately 800 species of evergreen trees and shrubs in approximately 65 genera (35-75, depending on generic definition). Distribution is pantropical.The best known member of this family is the shea tree,Vitellaria Paradoxa.\n", "id": "302498", "title": "Sapotaceae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302499", "text": "Annonaceae\n\nAnnonaceae the custard-apple, or annona family, the largest family of the magnolia order. It has 129 genera and 2,220 species. \n\nMany species are valuable for their large pulpy fruits, some are useful for their timber, and others are prized as ornamentals. The family consists of trees, shrubs, and woody climbers found mainly in the tropics, with a few species in temperate regions.\n\n", "id": "302499", "title": "Annonaceae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302501", "text": "2010 Asian Games\n\nThe 2010 Asian Games was a many-sport event held in Guangzhou, China from November 12 to November 27, 2010. This was the second time that any Chinese city had hosted the Games, after Beijing in 1990. A total of 9,704 athletes from 45 National Olympic Committees (NOCs) competed in 476 events from 42 sports and disciplines, making it the biggest event in the history of Asian Games.\n", "id": "302501", "title": "2010 Asian Games"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302511", "text": "Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours\n\nCircuit de Nevers Magny-Cours is a motor racing circuit in France, near the towns of Magny-Cours and Nevers. It is often called just Magny-Cours. It is most well known for hosting the Formula One French Grand Prix, which was held there between 1991 and 2008.\n\nThe circuit was built in 1960 by Jean Bernigaud. It was the home to the L'école de pilotage Winfield racing school. The school provided such drivers as François Cevert and Jacques Laffite. In the 1980s, the track condition was not very good. It needed a lot of repairs. The circuit was not used for international racing until it was purchased by the Regional Conseil de la Nièvre.\n\nIn the 1990s the Ligier (later known as Prost) Formula One team was based at the circuit. They did a lot of their testing at Magny-Cours. It started hosting the F1 French Grand Prix in 1991, and the Bol d'Or motorcycle race in 2000. The circuit was re-designed in 2003 and used for a wide range of events include various sports and commercial use.\n\nThe circuit does not provide many overtaking opportunities. The races here are commonly regarded as quite uneventful.\n\nFor the 2003 event, the final corner and chicane were changed in an effort to increase overtaking. It did not help much. The change did make the pitlane much shorter. Because less time was lost making a pit stop, Michael Schumacher was able to win the 2004 French Grand Prix using a four-stop strategy.\n\nIn 2006, the circuit was the scene of more Formula One history. Michael Schumacher became the first driver to win a single Grand Prix 8 times at the same circuit.\n\nThe 2007 race was to mark the last French Grand Prix at Magny-Cours. The French Grand Prix had been indefinitely suspended from the Formula One calendar. Bernie Ecclestone originally said that F1 would not return to Magny-Cours in 2008. He wanted to move to another location, possibly in Paris. \n\nWhen the official calendar on July 2007, the 2008 French Grand Prix was still in place at Magny-Cours.\n\nIn May 2008, Ecclestone confirmed that Magny-Cours would stop hosting the French Grand Prix after the 2008 race. He suggested he was looking into hosting the French Grand Prix on the streets of Paris.\n\nIn June 2008, the provisional calendar for the 2009 season was released. The French Grand Prix at Magny-Cours appeared on it, scheduled for 28 June. However, in October 2008 the 2009 French Grand Prix was canceled after the French Motorsports Federation (FFSA) withdrew financing for the event.\n\nIn 2009 the track hosted its first Superleague Formula event. It has also been confirmed it will host a second event in 2010.\n\nThe current track is a modern, smooth circuit. It has good facilities for the teams and spectators. It is from Paris in central France. Many corners are modeled on famous turns from other circuits, and are named after those circuits. Examples include the fast Estoril corner and the Adelaide hairpin. It has a mix of slow hairpins and high-speed chicane sections. It includes a long fast straight into the first-gear Adelaide hairpin, the best overtaking opportunity on the circuit. The circuit is very flat with little change in elevation. It does not provide many overtaking opportunities, despite modifications in 2003. \n\n", "id": "302511", "title": "Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302518", "text": "Telomere\n\nA telomere is a region of DNA at the end of a chromosome. It protects the end of the chromosome from deteriorating (getting worse) or fusing (joining) with other chromosomes.\n\nThe telomeres are made of repeated sequences of DNA ('repetitive DNA'). During cell division, enzymes that duplicate DNA cannot continue their work all the way to the end of chromosomes. If cells divided without telomeres, they would lose the ends of their chromosomes, and the information they contain. \n\nThe telomeres are disposable buffers blocking the ends of the chromosomes. They are destroyed during cell division, and are remade by an enzyme, telomerase reverse transcriptase.\n\nThe Australian Elizabeth Blackburn and the Americans Carol Greider and Jack Szostak won the 2008 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their work on telomeres.\n", "id": "302518", "title": "Telomere"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302521", "text": "Gernot Jurtin\n\nGernot Jurtin (9 October 1955 – 5 December 2006) was an Austrian football striker. Due to his long stay with S.K. Sturm Graz and over 100 goals he is a legend amongst Sturm Graz fans.\n\nHe started his career with WSV Judenburg and went to SK Sturm Graz in 1974. In 378 matches he scored 119 goals in the league. Together with Božo Bakota he formed a dangoures striker duo. 1980/81 he was the best scorer of the Austrian Bundesliga.\n\nBetween 1979 and 1983, he played 12 times for Austria, scoring one goal. He made two appearances for them in the 1982 FIFA World Cup, against Chile and Northern Ireland.\n", "id": "302521", "title": "Gernot Jurtin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302525", "text": "Gene Colan\n\nEugene (Gene) Jules Colan (September 1, 1926 — June 23, 2011) was an American comic book artist. He worked for the comic book publishers DC and Marvel for over 60 years. He drew comics for Batman, Wonder Woman, Iron Man, Captain America and Daredevil. He was well known for his artwork on the Tomb of Dracula where he was able to create atmosphere through the use of shadows.\n\nHe was born in the Bronx, New York in 1926. His parents were Jewish migrants from Germany who had changed their name from Cohen. Colan served in the US Air Force in the Philippines during World War II. His first comics were called Army Life and were published in the Manila Times. In 2010 he won an Eisner Award for a Captain America story.\n", "id": "302525", "title": "Gene Colan"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302527", "text": "Jagadguru Rambhadracharya\n\nJagadguru Ramanandacharya Swami Rambhadracharya is a Hindu religious leader. He is also an educator, composer, skilled public speaker, and philosopher. He was born on 14 January 1950. His birth name was Giridhar Mishra (IAST: Giridhara Miśra). He can speak 22 languages. He lives in Chitrakuta, Uttar Pradesh, India.\n\nIn 1988 he became one of the four \"Jagadguru Ramanandacharyas\", the leaders of the Ramananda order. He is the founder of Tulsi Peeth which is a religious and social service organization. It is in Chitrakuta. It is named after the saint Tulsidas. He is the founder and lifelong chancellor of the Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Handicapped University. It is a university in Chitrakuta and it gives graduate and postgraduate courses entirely to the four types of disabled students, having a poor physical or mental ability. Jagadguru Rambhadracharya became blind at the age of two months. He has never used Braille or any other help to learn or compose. He can speak 22 languages, and heis a self-produced poet (\"Ashukavi\"). He is a composer in Sanskrit, Hindi, Avadhi, Maithili and many other languages. He has written more than 80 books, which include four story telling poems (two in Sanskrit and two in Hindi), a Hindi series of comments on the Ramcharitmanas, a Sanskrit series of comments on the Ashtadhyayi, and a Sanskrit series of comments on the \"Prasthanatrayi\" religious books (the Brahma Sutra, the Bhagavad Gita and the main Upanishads). He is seen as one of the greatest sources of information on Tulsidas in India, and he is the editor of a critical edition of the Ramcharitmanas. He is a famous Katha artist for the Ramayana and the Bhagavata. His Katha programmes are held regularly in different cities in India and in other countries. They are shown on many television channels like Sanskar TV and Sanatan TV.\n\nJagadguru Rambhadracharya was born in Shandikhurd village of Jaunpur district in the state of Uttar Pradesh, India. His family was a Saryupareen Brahmin family of Vasishtha \"Gotra\". His birth time was 10:34 pm and he was born on the Makar Sankranti day of Saturday, January 14, 1950 (Magha Krishna Ekadashi). His mother was Shachidevi and his father was Pandit Rajdev Mishra. His name \"Giridhara\" was named by his father's aunt, a cousin of his grandfather Pandit Suryabali Mishra. His father's aunt was an admirer of Mirabai, a female saint of the Bhakti age in middle India, who used the name Giridhara for Krishna in her compositions.\n\nGiridhara became blind in March 1950 when he was aged two months. When he got the eye disease trachoma, there was no medical care in his village. He was taken to a local woman who was known to cure Trachoma. She dropped a hot medicine into his eyes to break the Trachoma lumps, but his eyes started bleeding and he became blind. His family took him to many Ayurvedic, Homeopathic, Allopathic and medical doctors in Sitapur, Lucknow and Mumbai, but there was no help. He cannot read or write, as he does not use the Braille system, but learns by listening and composes by dictating to secretaries.\n\nAs Giridhara's father used to work in Bombay, his early learning was at home from his grandfather. During afternoons, his grandfather used to tell him various parts of the Ramayana, the Mahabharata and other books like \"Vishramsagar\", \"Sukhsagar\", \"Premsagar\", and \"Brajvilas\", etc. When he was of 3 years, Giridhara made his first poem in Hindi (Avadhi), which was the following \"pada\". He spoke it to his grandfather. In this poem, Yashoda is fighting with a Gopi for causing pain to Krishna.\n\nDevanagari<br>\n\"मेरे गिरिधारी जी से काहे लरी ।\" \n\"तुम तरुणी मेरो गिरिधर बालक काहे भुजा पकरी ॥\" \n\"सुसुकि सुसुकि मेरो गिरिधर रोवत तू मुसुकात खरी ॥\" \n\"तू अहिरिन अतिसय झगराऊ बरबस आय खरी ॥\" \n\"गिरिधर कर गहि कहत जसोदा आँचर ओट करी ॥\" \n\nIAST<br>\nmere giridhārī jī se kāhe larī । \ntuma taruṇī mero giridhara bālaka kāhe bhujā pakarī ॥ \nsusuki susuki mero giridhara rovata tū musukāta kharī ॥ \ntū ahirina atisaya jhagarāū barabasa āya kharī ॥ \ngiridhara kara gahi kahata jasodā āŉcara oṭa karī ॥ \n\nHaving a great memory, Giridhar learnt all 700 verses of Bhagavad Gita at in 15 days when he was 5 years old. His neighbour, Pandit Murlidhar Mishra, helped him. On the Janmashtami day in 1955, he read out the whole Bhagavad Gita. By accident, 52 years after the day he learnt the Gita, he released the first ever Braille form of Gita at New Delhi on November 30, 2007, with the real Sanskrit text and a Hindi series of comments. When Giridhara was seven years old, he learned the whole Ramcharitmanas of Tulsidas (close to 10,900 verses) in 60 days. His grandfather helped him. On Ram Navmi day of 1957, he spoke the whole book while not eating food because of religious reasons. After that, Giridhara went on to learn the Vedas, Upanishads, books on Sanskrit grammar, the Bhagavata Puran, all books of Tulasidas and many other books.\n\nHis \"Upanayana\" (A sacred thread ceremony) was done on the Nirjala Ekadashi day of June 24, 1961. On this day, he got the Gayatri Mantra, and he was given Diksha into the Mantra of Rāma by Pandit Ishvardas Maharaj of Ayodhya. After learning Gita and Ramcharitmanas to high level of skills at a very young age, Giridhara started visiting the Katha programmes held one time in 3 years (in the Purushottama month) near his village. When he went to the third event, he showed a Katha on Ramcharitmanas which was highly respected by many famous representers of the Katha art.\n\nOn 7 July, 1967, Giridhara Miśra joined the Adarsh Gaurishankar Sanskrit College in Jaunpur to study Sanskrit Grammar as well Hindi, English, Maths, History and Geography. As he has the ability to memorize everything by just listening it one time, he never used Braille or other help to learn. In three months, he had learned the whole Laghusiddhāntakaumudī of Varadarāja to a high level. He was the best student and got most marks in tests in his class for four years, passing the primary to secondary tests in Sanskrit with best grades and a thing which makes him better than others.\n\nWhen Girihara was in Adarsh Gaurishankar Sanskrit College, he learnt the eight Gaṇas while learning \"Chandaprabhā\", a book on Sanskrit poetic metre. On the next day, he made his first Sanskrit poetic form, in the \"Bhujaṅgaprayāta\" metre.\n\nDevanagari<br>\n\"महाघोरशोकाग्निनातप्यमानं\" \n\"पतन्तं निरासारसंसारसिन्धौ ।\" \n\"अनाथं जडं मोहपाशेन बद्धं\" \n\"प्रभो पाहि मां सेवकक्लेशहर्त्तः ॥\" \n\nIAST<br>\nmahāghoraśokāgninātapyamānaṃ \npatantaṃ nirāsārasaṃsārasindhau । \nanāthaṃ jaḍaṃ mohapāśena baddhaṃ \nprabho pāhi māṃ sevakakleśaharttaḥ ॥ \n\nIn 1971, Giridhara Miśra entered at the Sampurnanand Sanskrit University in Varanasi for higher learning of Vyākaraṇa. He got most marks in the final test for the \"Śāstrī\" (three years' first degree) in 1974. He then registered for a Master's degree at the same university. While trying to get the master's degree, he went New Delhi to take part in many national contests at the \"Akhila Bhāratīya Sanskrit Adhiveśana\" (All-India Sanskrit Conference). There he won five gold medals in Vyākaraṇa, Sāṅkhya, Nyāya, Vedānta and Sanskrit Antyākṣarī out of eight. Then the Prime Minister of India, Indira Gandhi, gave the five gold medals with the \"Calavaijayantī\" prize for Uttar Pradesh to Giridhara. Surprised by his abilities, Indira Gandhi gave him the offer to send him to the United States of America for medical care of his eyes, but Giridhara Miśra did not accepted this offer. In 1976, he got most marks in the final \"Ācārya\" (two years' Master's degree) tests in Vyākaraṇa, he also won seven gold awards and the \"Chancellor's gold award\". In an uncommon achievement, though he had registered for a master's degree in Vyākaraṇa only, he was made \"Ācārya\" of all subjects which were taught at the university for his all-round qualities on April 30, 1976.\n\nGiridhara began studying for a PhD also at Sampurnanand Sanskrit University. Pandit Ramprasad Tripathi supervised his studies. Giridhara got a scholarship from the \"University Grants Commission\" (UGC) by passing an examination. However, he had money problem for several years. He completed his PhD in Sanskrit grammar on October 14, 1981. He wrote about the language of the poet Pāṇinī in the Ramayana. UGC then offered him a job as head of the Vyākaraṇa department of the Sampurnanand Sanskrit University. However, Giridhara Miśra did not take the job. He decided to give his life to the service of his religion, the world, and the disabled.\n\nIn 1997 he was awarded the post-doctorate Vācaspati (DLitt) degree by Sampurnanand Sanskrit University for his lecture called \"Search into spoken knowledge of every Sūtra of the Aṣṭādhyāyī\" in English (Original title: \"Aṣṭādhyāyyāḥ Pratisūtraṃ Śābdabodhasamīkṣaṇam\"). He described each phrase of the sutra carefully. He told about Pāṇinī's grammar and use of Sanskrit poetic forms.\n\nIn 1976, Giridhara Miśra said aloud a Kathā on Rāmcaritamānasa to Svāmī Karapātrī. Svāmī Karapātrī advised him not to marry, to live a lifelong Brahmacārin, and to take start in a Vaiṣṇava Sampradāya. Giridhara Miśra took Vairagi start (Virakta Dīkṣā) in the Rāmānanda Sampradāya (monastic order) on the Kārtika full-moon day of November 19, 1983 from Śrī Śrī 1008 Śrī Rāmacaraṇadāsa Mahārāja Phālāhārī. He now came to be known as Rāmabhadradāsa.\n\n\nRambhadradas had a six month \"Payovrata\", which is a diet only of milk and fruits, at Chitrakoot in 1979 per the following fifth verse of the \"Dohavali\" made by Tulsidas.\n\nIn 1987 Rambhadradas established a religious and social service institution in Chitrakoot, where, as per the Ramayana, Rama had spent twelve out of his fourteen years of exile. Its name is Tulsi Peeth (the seat of Tulsi). As he is the founder of the institution, Sadhus gave him the title of \"Śrīcitrakūṭatulasīpīṭhādhīśvara\" (which means the God of the Tulsi Peeth at Chitrakoot). In the Tulsi Peeth, there a temple of Rama and Sita, and its name is Kanch Mandir (\"glass temple\").\n\nRambhadradas was made Jagadguru Ramanandacharya seated at the Tulsi Peeth by the Kashi Vidwat Parishad in Varanasi on 24 June 1988, and this order was supported by the \"Mahants\" of three \"Akharas\", the four sub-\"Sampradayas\", the \"Khalsas\" and saints of the Ramananda Sampradaya on 3 February 1989, at the \"Kumbh Mela\" in Allahabad. On 1 August 1995 he was anointed as the \"Jagadguru Ramanandacharya\" in a ritual manner in Ayodhya by the \"Digambar Akhara\". After that he is known as \"Jagadguru Ramanandacharya Swami Rambhadracharya\".\n\nSwami Rambhadracharya started the Tulsi School for the Blind in Chitrakoot on 23 August 1996. He also started the Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Handicapped University in Chitrakoot on 27 September 2001. This is the first university in the world entirely for disabled students. It was created by a local law of the Uttar Pradesh Government, which was afterwards accepted as the Uttar Pradesh State Act 32 (2001) by the Uttar Pradesh legislature. This act assigned Jagadguru Rambhadracharya as the chancellor of this university for his entire life. The university offers graduate, post-graduate and doctorate degrees in many arts and sciences. The university is planning to give courses in Ayurveda and Medical Sciences from 2013. The permission to enter into the university is limited to only four types of disabled students – those who are blind, or have difficulty in hearing, having difficulty in walking or having some mental illness, as defined in the Disability Act (1995) of the Government of India. According to the Government of Uttar Pradesh, the university is one of the main education institutes for Information Technology and Electronics in the state. Various degrees were given to 354 disabled students in the second graduation ceremony of the university which was held in March 2010. In the third graduation ceremony which was held in January 2011, 388 disabled students were given degrees.\n\nRambhadracharya also founded an organisation. Its name is Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Viklang Seva Sangh. Its based in Satna, Madhya Pradesh. Its mission is to make community awareness and to start child development programs in Indian villages. Its main aim is to support the education programs of Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Handicapped University. It helps disabled children get a good education by making access to education easier. Rambhadracharya also runs a hundred-bed hospital in Gujarat.\n\nTulsidas wrote the epic poem Ramcharitmanas in the late sixteenth century. It has been very popular in northern India ever since. Some Western scholars have called it the \"Bible of northern India\". Many different poets have created their own versions of the poem.\n\n", "id": "302527", "title": "Jagadguru Rambhadracharya"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302532", "text": "Molecular orbital\n\nIn chemistry, a molecular orbital (or MO) explains what happens to electrons when atoms join together in a molecule. A MO is a mathematical function which describes the wave-like behaviour of an electron in a molecule. Chemists use such functions to predict or explain chemical and physical properties. For example, the functions can tell the probability of finding an electron in any specific region.\n\nChemists usually build mathematical models of molecular orbitals by combining atomic orbitals. Hybrid orbitals from each atom of the molecule, or other molecular orbitals from groups of atoms can also be used. Computers can work on these functions. Molecular orbitals allow chemists to apply quantum mechanics to study molecules. MOs answer questions about how the atoms in molecules stick together. The various rounded shapes in an orbital diagram indicate where electrons would most likely be found in an atom. \nThe word \"orbital\" was first used in English by Robert S. Mulliken. The German physicist Erwin Schrödinger wrote about MOs earlier. Schrödinger called them \"Eigenfunktion\".\n\nPhysicist Max Born described the theory behind molecular orbitals in 1926. Today, it is known as Born's rule and is part of the Copenhagen interpretation of quantum mechanics. When initially proposed, this theory did not agree with the atom model of Niels Bohr. Bohr's model described electrons as \"orbiting\" the nucleus, as they moved around in circles. However, the Born model eventually gained popular support because it was able to describe the locations of electrons within molecules and explained a number of previously inexplicable chemical reactions.\n\nAtomic orbitals predict the position of an electron in an atom. Molecular orbitals are created when atomic orbitals are brought together. A molecular orbital can give information about the electron configuration of a molecule. The electron configuration is the most likely position, and the energy of one (or one pair of) electron(s). Mostly a MO is represented as a linear combination of atomic orbitals (the LCAO-MO method), especially in approximate use. This means that chemists assume the chance of an electron being at any point in the molecule is the sum of the probabilities of the electron being there based on the individual atomic orbitals. LCAO-MO is a simple model of bonding in molecules, and is important for studying molecular orbital theory.\n\nTheoretical chemists use computers to calculate the MOs of different molecules (both real and imaginary). The computer can draw graphs of the \"cloud\" to show how likely the electron will be in any region. The computers can also give information about the physical properties of the molecule. They can also say how much energy is required to form the molecule. This helps chemists say whether some small molecules can be combined to make bigger molecules.\n\nMost present-day ways of doing computational chemistry begin by calculating the MOs of a system. Each MO's electric field is generated by the nuclei of all the atoms and some average distribution of the other electrons.\n\nUnderstanding MOs is like the task of knowing where each employee is in a large home improvement store (without looking inside the store). An analyst knows the number of employees working at the store and each employee's department. He also knows that employees do not step on each other toes and employees stand in the aisle rather than on the merchandise shelves. Employees leave their own department to help customers locate merchandise in other departments or to check inventory. An analyst giving the location of all employees in the store at a selected moment without looking inside is like a chemist calculating the MOs of a molecule. Just as MOs cannot tell the exact location of each electron, the exact location of each employee is not known. An MO having a nodal plane is like the conclusion that employees walk down aisles and not through shelves. Although electrons are contributed from a specific atom, the electron fills an MO without regard to its source atom. This is like an employee leaving his department to walk elsewhere in the store during the day. So, an MO is an incomplete description of an electron just as the analyst's calculations about the unseen store is an incomplete guess about employee locations.\n\nTheoretical chemists have invented rules for calculating MOs. These rules come from an understanding of quantum mechanics. Quantum mechanics helps chemists to use what physics said about electrons to work out how the electrons behave in molecules.\nMolecular orbitals form from \"allowed\" interactions between atomic orbitals. (The interactions are \"allowed\" if the symmetries (determined from group theory) of the atomic orbitals are compatible with each other.) Chemists study atomic orbital interactions. These interactions come from the overlap (a measure of how well two orbitals constructively interact with one another) between two atomic orbitals. The overlap is important if the atomic orbitals are close in energy. Finally, the number of MOs in a molecule must equal the number of atomic orbitals in the atoms being brought together to form the molecule.\n\nChemists need to understand the geometry of MOs in order to discuss molecular structure. The LCMO (Linear combination of atomic orbitals molecular orbital) method gives a rough but good description of the MOs. In this method, the molecular orbitals are expressed as linear combinations of all of the atomic orbitals of each atom in the molecule.\n\nMolecular orbitals were first introduced by Friedrich Hund and Robert S. Mulliken in 1927 and 1928.\n\nThe linear combination of atomic orbitals or \"LCAO\" approximation for molecular orbitals was introduced in 1929 by Sir John Lennard-Jones. His ground-breaking paper showed how to derive the electronic structure of the fluorine and oxygen molecules from quantum principles. This qualitative approach to molecular orbital theory is part of the start of modern quantum chemistry.\n\nLinear combinations of atomic orbitals (LCAO) can be used to guess the molecular orbitals that are made when the molecule’s atoms bond together. Similar to an atomic orbital, a Schrodinger equation, which describes the behavior of an electron, can be constructed for a molecular orbital as well. Linear combinations of atomic orbitals, (the sums and differences of the atomic wavefunctions) provide approximate solutions to the molecular Schrodinger equations. For simple diatomic molecules, the wavefunctions that you get are represented mathematically by the equations\n\nΨ = cψ + cψ\n\nand\n\nΨ* = cψ - cψ\n\nwhere Ψ and Ψ* are the molecular wavefunctions for the bonding and antibonding molecular orbitals, respectively, ψ and ψ are the atomic wavefunctions from atoms a and b, respectively, and c and c are adjustable coefficients. These coefficients can be positive or negative, depending on the energies and symmetries of the individual atomic orbitals. As the two atoms become closer together, their atomic orbitals overlap to produce areas of high electron density. So, molecular orbitals are formed between the two atoms. The atoms are held together by the electrostatic attraction between the positively charged nuclei and the negatively charged electrons occupying bonding molecular orbitals.\n\nWhen atomic orbitals interact, the resulting molecular orbital can be of three types: bonding, antibonding, or nonbonding.\n\nBonding MOs:\n\nAntibonding MOs: \nNonbonding MOs: \n\nEach molecular orbital has its own energy level. Chemists sort the MOs by energy levels. Chemists assume that the electrons will fill the lowest energy level MOs first. For example, if a molecule has electrons to fill 15 orbitals, the 15 MOs with the lowest energy levels will be filled. The 15th MO on the list would be called the \"highest occupied molecular orbital\" (HOMO) and the 16th MO on the list would be the \"lowest unoccupied molecular orbital\" (LUMO). The difference in the HOMO's energy level and the LUMO's energy level is called the band gap. The band gap can sometimes serve as a measure of the excitability of the molecule: the smaller the energy, the more easily it will be excited. When the electron is excited, it will jump to an unoccupied MO. For example, this can help guess whether something will give out light (luminescence).\n\n", "id": "302532", "title": "Molecular orbital"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302533", "text": "Woodward–Hoffmann rules\n\nThe Woodward–Hoffmann rules are a set of organic chemistry rules to predict the stereochemistry of pericyclic reactions. Pericyclic reactions are usually rearrangement reactions where the molecule is a ring (e.g. benzene ring). They were written by Robert Burns Woodward (a chemistry professor at Harvard University) and Roald Hoffmann (a chemistry professor at Cornell University). Hoffmann was awarded the 1981 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for this work, shared with Kenichi Fukui who developed a similar model. Woodward did not share the prize because he died two years before. Generally, the Nobel Prize is awarded only to living people. Woodward had already won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry for a different discovery.\n\nA recent paper in the journal \"Nature\" describes how mechanical stress can be used to reshape chemical reaction pathways to lead to products that apparently violate Woodward–Hoffman rules.\n\n\n", "id": "302533", "title": "Woodward–Hoffmann rules"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302535", "text": "Stereochemistry\n\nStereochemistry is the study of how molecules are affected by the way their atoms are arranged in space. It is also known as 3D chemistry as the word \"stereo\" means \"three dimensional\". Using stereochemistry, chemists can work out the relationships between different molecules that are made up from the same atoms. They can also study the effect on the physical or biological properties these relationships give molecules. When these relationships influence the reactivity of the molecules it is called dynamic stereochemistry. \n\nIn chemistry, some molecules have more than one isomer. This means that molecules can have different forms, even though all the forms made up of the same atoms. There are two kinds of isonomers. Constitutional isomers have the same atoms, but they are joined differently. Stereoisomers have the same atoms, they are joined the same way, but the atoms are arranged differently in space. An important part of stereochemistry is the study of chiral molecules. These molecules look almost identical, except that one molecule is the mirror image of the other.\n\nIn most chemical bonds, the atoms of a molecule free to move around without breaking the bonds. When a molecule has a double bond or a ring structure, the molecule can be sorted into different isomers. These are molecules with the same chemical structure but different forms.\n\nThe study of stereochemical problems covers the entire range of organic, inorganic, biological, physical and supramolecular chemistries.\n\nLouis Pasteur was the first person to study stereochemistry. He observed in 1849 that salts of tartaric acid collected from wine-making equipment could rotate plane polarized light, but that salts from other sources did not. This property was the only difference between the two types of salt. It is due to optical isomerism. In 1874, Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff and Joseph Le Bel discovered the difference was caused by the way that the atoms bonded to carbon in a tetrahedral (four faced) shape.\n\nStereochemistry was important in solving the thalidomide disaster in the 1960s. Thalidomide is a drug that was first produced in 1957 in Germany. Doctors used it to treat morning sickness in pregnant women. Later, the drug was shown to cause deformations in babies. One isomer of the drug was not dangerous, but the other caused serious genetic damage to the embryos. In the human body, thalidomide undergoes racemization: even if only one of the two stereoisomers enters a human body, the body changes some of it to other one. The thalidomide disaster caused governments to test drugs more carefully. Selected people take new drugs in an experiment (clinical trial) first before the drug is made available for public use. Thalidomide is now used as a therapy for leprosy. Women must use it with contraceptives to prevent pregnancy.\n\nWhen an atom can have other atoms connect to it in more than one way, it is called a stereocenter. For example, if a carbon atom has four different groups attached to it, it becomes a stereocenter.\n\nCahn-Ingold-Prelog priority rules are part of a system for describing a molecule's stereochemistry. They rank the atoms around a stereocenter in a standard way. This allows the relative position of these atoms in the molecule to be described very clearly. A Fischer projection is a simplified way to show the stereochemistry around a stereocenter.\n\n", "id": "302535", "title": "Stereochemistry"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302550", "text": "Cornel West\n\nCornel Ronald West (born June 2, 1953) is an American philosopher, author, critic, actor, and civil rights activist. He is a member of the Democratic Socialists of America. West is the Class of 1943 University Professor at Princeton University. He teaches in the Center for African American Studies and in the Department of Religion. West is known for his combination of political and moral insight and criticism and his contribution to the post-1960s civil rights movement. Much of West's work focuses on the role of race, gender, and class in American society and the means by which people act and react to their \"radical conditionedness\". West draws intellectual contributions from such diverse traditions as the African American Baptist Church, pragmatism and transcendentalism.\n\nWest was born in Tulsa, Oklahoma, and grew up in Sacramento, California, where his father was a general contractor for the Defense Department and his mother was a teacher and a principal. Irene B. West Elementary School, Elk Grove, California, is named for her. While West was a student, he marched in civil rights demonstrations. As the class president in his high school, West organized protests demanding black studies courses. He later wrote that, in his youth, he admired \"the sincere black militancy of Malcolm X, the defiant rage of the Black Panther Party [...] and the livid black theology of James Cone.\"\nIn 1970, West graduated from John F. Kennedy High School. He enrolled at Harvard University and took classes from philosophers Robert Nozick and Stanley Cavell. In 1973, he graduated \"magna cum laude\" in Near Eastern Languages and Civilization. \"Owing to my family, church, and the black social movements of the 1960s\", he says, \"I arrived at Harvard unashamed of my African, Christian, and militant de-colonized outlooks. More pointedly, I acknowledged and accented the empowerment of my black styles, mannerisms, and viewpoints, my Christian values of service, love, humility, and struggle, and my anti-colonial sense of self-determination for oppressed people and nations around the world.\"\n\nIn 1980, he earned a Ph.D. from Princeton, where he was influenced by Richard Rorty's pragmatism. The title of his dissertation was \"Ethics, historicism and the Marxist tradition\", which was later revised and published under the title \"The Ethical Dimensions of Marxist Thought\".\n\nIn his mid-20s, he returned to Harvard as a W. E. B. Du Bois Fellow before becoming an Assistant Professor at Union Theological Seminary in the City of New York. In 1985, he worked at Yale Divinity School in what eventually became a joint appointment in American Studies. While at Yale, he participated in campus protests for a clerical labor union and divestment from apartheid South Africa. He was arrested and jailed at one of the protests. As punishment, the University administration canceled his leave for Spring 1987, leading him to commute from Yale in New Haven, Connecticut, where he was teaching two classes, across the Atlantic Ocean to the University of Paris.\n\nHe then returned to Union and taught at Haverford College in Pennsylvania for one year before going to Princeton to become a Professor of Religion and Director of the Program in African-American Studies (1988–94). He worked with novelist Toni Morrison to improve the Princeton program.\n\nIn 1994, West accepted an appointment as Professor of African-American Studies at Harvard University, with a joint appointment at the Harvard Divinity School. West taught one of the University's most popular courses, an introductory class on African-American Studies. In 1998, he was appointed the first Alphonse Fletcher University Professor. This professorship allowed West to teach both African-American studies and Divinity, Religion, and Philosophy.\n\nIn 2001, after an argument with Harvard President Lawrence Summers, West returned to Princeton, where he has taught ever since.\n\nThe recipient of more than 20 honorary degrees and an American Book Award, he is a long-time member of the Democratic Socialists of America, for which he now serves as Honorary Chair. He is also a co-chair of the Tikkun Community and the Network of Spiritual Progressives. West is on the Board of Directors of the International Bridges to Justice, among others. West is also much sought-after as a speaker, blurb-writer, and Honorary Chair.\n\nCritics, most notably \"The New Republic\" Literary Editor Leon Wieseltier, have charged him with opportunism, crass showmanship, and lack of scholarly seriousness.\n\nWest remains a widely cited scholar in the popular press in African-American Studies and Studies of Black Theology.\n\nWest is a member of Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity. He is a member of the fraternity's World Policy Council, a think tank whose purpose is to expand Alpha Phi Alpha's involvement in politics and social and current policy to encompass international concerns.\n\nWest appears in both \"The Matrix Reloaded\" and \"The Matrix Revolutions\", playing Councilor West, who serves on the council of Zion. West's character advises that \"comprehension is not a requisite of cooperation.\" In addition, West provides philosophical commentary on all three Matrix films in The Ultimate Matrix Collection, along with integral theorist Ken Wilber.\n\nCornel West has also made several appearances in documentary films, such as the 2008 film \"Examined Life\", a documentary featuring several academics discussing philosophy in real-world contexts. West, \"driving through Manhattan, . . . compares philosophy to jazz and blues, reminding us how intense and invigorating a life of the mind can be.\"\nHe also appears in conversation with Bill Withers in the Bill Withers documentary, \"Still Bill\".\nWest also makes frequent appearances on the political talk show \"Real Time with Bill Maher\".\n\nOn the musical front, West recorded a recitation of John Mellencamp's song \"Jim Crow\" for inclusion on the singer's box set \"On the Rural Route 7609\" in 2009.\nIn 2010, he completed recording with the Cornel West Theory, a Hip Hop band endorsed by West. He has also released two hip-hop/soul/spoken word albums, one under \"Cornel West\" (entitled Street Knowledge), the other under \"Cornel West & B.M.W.M.B.\" (entitled Never Forget: A Journey of Revelations). Both works are musical expressions of West's personal politics and beliefs which he has enunciated in his previous written works.\n\nIn 2000, economist and former U.S. Treasury Secretary Lawrence Summers became president of Harvard. In a private meeting with West, Summers allegedly rebuked West for missing too many classes, contributing to grade inflation, neglecting serious scholarship, and spending too much time on his economically profitable projects. Some people say that Summers allegedly suggested that West produce an academic book (work that is typical of senior Harvard professors). West had written several books, some of them widely cited, but his recent output consisted primarily of co-written and edited volumes. According to some reports, Summers also objected to West's production of a CD, the critically panned \"Sketches of My Culture\", and to his political campaigning. According to West's book \"Democracy Matters,\" Summers wrongly accused him of canceling classes for three straight weeks during 2000 to promote Bill Bradley's presidential campaign. West contends that he had missed one class during his tenure at Harvard \"in order to give a keynote address at a Harvard-sponsored conference on AIDS.\" Summers also allegedly suggested that since West held the rank of Harvard University Professor and thus reported directly to the President, he should meet with Summers regularly to discuss the progress of his academic production.\n\nWest contends that popular coverage of the controversy obscured the true issues at stake in his dispute with Summers. West argues that Summers's vision of academia is corrosive to a deep democratic commitment that strives to connect the academy with society at large, so as to fulfill its calling to educate the public. He contends that the controversy with Summers was indicative of the fact that \"a market-driven technocratic culture has infiltrated university life, with the narrow pursuit of academic trophies and the business of generating income from grants and business partnerships taking precedence over the fundamental responsibility of nurturing young minds.\" According to West, during the controversy he was highly regarded in the academic community, \"had more academic references than fourteen of the other seventeen Harvard University Professors\", and \"had nearly twice as many such references as Summers himself.\" At the time, West had been focused on reaching wider audiences as part of his effort to encourage civic engagement—especially amongst youth—in the hope of revitalizing what he calls a deep democratic commitment that would counteract the encroaching political nihilism that he argues threatens the future of American democracy. While West does not deny the importance of academics engaging the more specialized concerns of their fields, he strongly opposes the sentiment that academia must limit itself to those rarefied interests. Academia and academics, he contends, have an important role to play in promoting public discourse that cannot be achieved if professors lock themselves in their ivory towers instead of engaging society-at-large and the salient issues of the day. Ultimately, this was the root of the quarrel, according to West.\n\nSummers refused to comment on the details of his conversation with West, except to express hope that West would remain at Harvard. Soon after, West was hospitalized for prostate cancer. West complained that Summers failed to send him get-well wishes until weeks after his surgery, whereas newly installed Princeton president Shirley Tilghman had contacted him frequently before and after his treatment. In 2002 West left Harvard University to return to Princeton. West lashed out at Summers in public interviews, calling him \"the Ariel Sharon of higher education\" on NPR's \"Tavis Smiley Show\". In response to these remarks, five Princeton faculty members, led by professor of molecular biology Jacques Robert Fresco, said they looked with \"strong disfavor upon his characterization\" of Summers and that \"such an analogy carries innuendoes and implications... that many on the Princeton faculty find highly inappropriate, indeed repugnant and intolerable.\"\n\nHarvard University's undergraduate student newspaper, \"The Harvard Crimson\", suggested in October 2002 that the premise of \"\" episode \"Anti-Thesis\" was based on West's conflicts with Summers.\n\nWest publicly supported 2008 Democratic Presidential candidate Senator Barack Obama. He spoke to over 1,000 of his supporters at the Apollo Theater in Harlem, N.Y.C. on November 29, 2007. However, West now calls Obama a \"black mascot of Wall Street oligarchs and a black puppet of corporate plutocrats.\" In an interview, West said:As a young brother who grows up in a white context, brilliant African father, he's always had to fear being a white main with a black skin. All he has known culturally is white.West's comments about President Obama have drawn criticism from other African-Americans, including Melissa Harris-Perry and Al Sharpton.\n\nWest criticized President Obama when Obama won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2009, saying that it would be difficult for Obama to be \"a war president with a peace prize\".\nWest recanted his support for Obama in an April 2011 interview, in which he said Obama is merely a \"black mascot\" for America's elites and also \"a black muppet of corporate plutocrats.\"\nWest has called the U.S. a \"racist patriarchal\" nation where \"white supremacy\" continues to define everyday life. \"White America,\" he writes, \"has been historically weak-willed in ensuring racial justice and has continued to resist fully accepting the humanity of blacks.\" This has resulted, he claims, in the creation of many \"degraded and oppressed people hungry for identity, meaning, and self-worth.\" Professor West attributes most of the black community's problems to \"existential angst derive[d] from the lived experience of ontological wounds and emotional scars inflicted by white supremacist beliefs and images permeating U.S. society and culture.\"\n\nIn West's view, the September 11, 2001 attacks gave white Americans a glimpse of what it means to be a black person in the United States—feeling \"unsafe, unprotected, subject to random violence, and hatred\" for who they are. \"The ugly terrorist attacks on innocent civilians on 9/11,\" he said, \"plunged the whole country into the blues.\"\n\nWest has described himself as a \"non-Marxist socialist\" (partly due to Marx's opposition to religion) and serves as honorary chair of the Democratic Socialists of America, which he has described as \"the first multiracial, socialist organization close enough to my politics that I could join\". He also described himself as a \"radical democrat, suspicious of all forms of authority\" on the \"Matrix\"-themed documentary \"The Burly Man Chronicles\" (Found in \"The Ultimate Matrix Collection\").\n\nWest believes that \"the overthrow of Saddam Hussein's ugly totalitarian regime was desirable,\" but that the war in Iraq was the result of \"dishonest manipulation\" on the part of the Bush administration. He asserts that Bush Administration hawks \"are not simply conservative elites and right-wing ideologues\", but rather are \"evangelical nihilists — drunk with power and driven by grand delusions of American domination of the world\". He adds, \"We are experiencing the sad gangsterization of America, an unbridled grasp at power, wealth, and status.\" Viewing capitalism as the root cause of these alleged American lusts, West warns, \"Free-market fundamentalism trivializes the concern for public interest. It puts fear and insecurity in the hearts of anxiety-ridden workers. It also makes money-driven, poll-obsessed elected officials deferential to corporate goals of profit — often at the cost of the common good.\"\n\nWest has been involved with such projects as the Million Man March and Russell Simmons's Hip-Hop Summit, and worked with such public figures as Louis Farrakhan and Al Sharpton, whose 2004 presidential campaign West advised.\n\nIn 2000, West worked as a senior advisor to Democratic presidential candidate Bill Bradley. When Bradley lost in the primaries, West became a prominent endorser of Ralph Nader, even speaking at some Nader rallies. Some Greens sought to draft West to run as a presidential candidate in 2004. West declined, citing his active participation in the Al Sharpton campaign. West, along with other prominent Nader 2000 supporters, signed the \"Vote to Stop Bush\" statement urging progressive voters in swing states to vote for John Kerry, despite strong disagreements with many of Kerry's policies.\n\nIn April 2002 West and Rabbi Michael Lerner performed an act of civil disobedience at the U.S. State Department \"in solidarity with suffering Palestinian and Israeli brothers and sisters\". West said, \"We must keep in touch with the humanity of both sides.\" In May 2007 West joined a demonstration against \"injustices faced by the Palestinian people resulting from the Israeli occupation\" and \"to bring attention to this 40 year travesty of justice\". In 2011, West called on the University of Arizona to divest from companies profiting from the Israeli occupation of the Palestinian Territories.\n\nWest also serves as co-chair of the Tikkun Community. He co-chaired the National Parenting Organization's Task Force on Parent Empowerment and participated in President Clinton's National Conversation on Race. He has publicly endorsed \"In These Times\" magazine by calling it: \"The most creative and challenging news magazine of the American left\". He is also a contributing editor for \"Sojourners Magazine\".\n\nWest supports of People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA.) in its Kentucky Fried Cruelty campaign, aimed at eliminating what PETA describes as KFC's inhumane treatment of chickens. West is quoted on PETA flyers: \"Although most people don't know chickens as well as they know cats and dogs, chickens are interesting individuals with personalities and interests every bit as developed as the dogs and cats with whom many of us share our lives.\"\n\nIn 2008, West contributed his insights on the current global issue of modernized slavery and human trafficking in the rockumentary Call+Response. \n\nWest is a member of the Campaign for Peace and Democracy.\n\nDuring the 2016 United States presidential election, West was a strong supporter and campaigned for Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders. After Sanders lost the Democratic nomination, West supported Jill Stein of the Green Party.\n\n\n\n", "id": "302550", "title": "Cornel West"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302575", "text": "Juno (spacecraft)\n\nJuno is an unmanned NASA New Frontiers spacecraft. It will orbit and explore the planet Jupiter. The spacecraft was launched on August 5, 2011 from the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. Scott Bolton is leading the mission.\n\nJuno's main goal is to understand the origin and evolution of Jupiter. Juno will also study the planet's atmospheric composition, gravity field, magnetic field, and polar magnetosphere.\n", "id": "302575", "title": "Juno (spacecraft)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302576", "text": "Mark Holton\n\nMark Holton is an American actor. His movies include \"Hoboken Hollow\" (2007), \"Gacy\", \"The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle\" (2000) and \"Little Giants\" (1994).\n\nHolton went to school at Northeastern State University in Tahlequah, Oklahoma.\n", "id": "302576", "title": "Mark Holton"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302577", "text": "William Forsythe\n\nWilliam Forsythe (born June 7, 1955) is an American actor. Forsythe played Al Capone in the television series \"The Untouchables\". Forsythe has also played Sammy Gravano in the HBO movie \"Gotti\" and the serial killer John Wayne Gacy in \"Dear Mr. Gacy\".\n", "id": "302577", "title": "William Forsythe"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302578", "text": "Toyota Prius\n\nThe Toyota Prius is a hybrid automobile from the Japanese automobile producer Toyota. It is called 'hybrid' because it has two different engines: a gasoline engine (combustion engine) and an electric motor. Because of the electric motor, it uses less fuel than a normal gasoline automobile when driving at low speeds (for example in the city). The electric motor uses batteries for its power, and these batteries are charged by a dynamo when the gasoline engine is used at higher speeds. The first generation launched in Japan in December 1997, then it reached the rest of the world in 2000. It entered its second generation in 2003 and it began to become more popular with buyers. The third generation arrived in 2009 and grew larger in size. The current fourth generation appeared in December 2015. \n", "id": "302578", "title": "Toyota Prius"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302580", "text": "Upper Palaeolithic\n\nThe Upper Palaeolithic (Upper Paleolithic or Late Stone Age) is the third and last part of the Palaeolithic period. It lasted from about 40,000 to 10,000 years ago. Humans used tools for hunting and fishing. They also developed cave paintings. In this period, the Neanderthal man completely disappeared, leaving Homo sapiens as the only surviving species in the human genus.\n\nIn Europe, Asia and Africa, this time is known as the last part of the Old Stone Age.\n\nThe first \"modern humans\" found in Western Europe date back to about 36,000 years ago. Those fossils were found in the south-west of Romania. The founds were made in a stone cave called Peștera cu Oase.\n\nThe Lascaux cave paintings are from this time period. They are part of the UNESCO World Heritage Sites since 1979 and are in France.\n\nEvidence for belief in the afterlife in the Upper Palaeolithic: appearance of burial rituals and ancestor worship.\n\nPossibly among the earliest traces of art are Venus figurines. These are \"figurines\" (very small statues) of women, mostly pregnant with visible breasts. The figurines were found in areas of Western Europe to Siberia. Most are between 20,000 and 30,000 years old. Two figurines have been found that are much older: the Venus of Tan-Tan, dated to 300,000 to 500,000 years ago was found in Morocco. The Venus of Berekhat Ram was found on the Golan Heights. It has been dated to 200,000 to 300,000 years ago. It may be the one of the earliest things that show the human form. \n\nDifferent kinds of stone, bones and ivory were used to make the figurines. Some are also made of clay which was then burned in a fire. This is one of the earliest known traces of the use of ceramics.\n\nToday it is not known what the figurines meant to the people who made them. There are two basic theories:\nScientists have excluded that these figurines were linked to the fertility of fields, because agriculture had not been discovered at the time the figurines were made.\n\nThe two figurines that are older may have mostly formed by natural processes. The Venus of Tan-Tan was covered with a substance that could have been some kind of paint. The substance contained traces of iron and manganese. The figurine of Berekhat Ram shows traces that someone worked on it with a tool. A study done in 1997 states that these traces could not have been left by nature alone.\n\nCave paintings are paintings that were made on the walls or roofs of caves. Many cave paintings belong to the Palaeolothic Age, and date from about 15,000 to 30,000 years ago. Among the most famous are those in the caves of Altamira in Spain and Lascaux in France. There are about 350 caves in Europe where cave paintings have been found. Usually, animals have been painted, like aurochs, bisons or horses. Why these paintings were done is not known. They are not simply decorations of places where people lived. The caves they were found in usually do not show signs that someone lived in them.\n\nOne of the oldest caves is that of Chauvet in France. Paintings in the cave fall into two groups. One has been dated to around 30,000 to 33,000 years ago, the other to 26,000 or 27,000 years ago. The oldest known cave paintings, based on radiocarbon dating of \"black from drawings, from torch marks and from the floors\". As of 1999, the dates of 31 samples from the cave have been reported. The oldest paintings have been dated from 32,900±490 years ago.\n\nSome archaeologists have questioned the dating. Züchner believe the two groups date from 23,000–24,000, and 10,000–18,000 years ago. Pettitt and Bahn believe the dating is inconsistent. They say the people at that periods of time painted things differently. They also do not know where the charcoal used to paint some things is from, and how big the painted area is.\n\nPeople from the Palaeolithic era drew well. They knew about perspective, and they knew of different ways to draw things. They also were able to observe the behaviour of animals they painted. Some of the paintings show how the painted animals behaved. The paintings may have been important for rituals.\n\n", "id": "302580", "title": "Upper Palaeolithic"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302590", "text": "Adams Morgan\n\nAdams Morgan is a culturally diverse neighborhood in Northwest Washington, D.C.. It is centered at the intersection of 18th Street and Columbia Road. Adams Morgan is the center of Washington's Hispanic immigrant community. It is a major night life area with many bars and restaurants, particularly along 18th Street (the primary commercial district) and Columbia Road. Much of the neighborhood has 19th- and early 20th-century row houses and apartment buildings. \n\nAdjacent to Adams Morgan is Dupont Circle to the south, Kalorama-Sheridan to the southwest, Mount Pleasant to the north, and Columbia Heights to the east. The neighborhood is bounded by Connecticut Avenue to the southwest, Rock Creek Park to the west, Harvard Street to the north, 16th Street to the east, and Florida Avenue to the south. \n\nThe name Adams Morgan was originally hyphenated. It is derived from the names of two, formerly segregated area elementary schools—the older, all-black Thomas P. Morgan Elementary School (now defunct) and the all-white John Quincy Adams Elementary School. Pursuant to the 1954 \"Bolling v. Sharpe\" Supreme Court ruling, District schools were desegregated in 1955. The Adams-Morgan Community Council, comprising both Adams and Morgan schools and the neighborhoods they served, was formed in 1958. The city drew boundaries of the neighborhood through three preexisting neighborhoods – Washington Heights, Lanier Heights, and Meridian Hill – naming the resulting area after both schools.\n\nIn the late 1960s, a group of residents organized and worked with city officials to plan and construct a new elementary school and recreational complex that was conceived as a community hub, a concept that 40 years later has become a favored one in public school facilities design. The development was named the Marie H. Reed Learning Center after Bishop Reed, a community activist, minister and leader. It featured a daycare center, tennis and basketball courts, a solar-heated swimming pool, health clinic, athletic field and outdoor chess tables.\n\nAdams Morgan, together with the nearby Mount Pleasant and Columbia Heights, serve as a gateway community for immigrants. Since the 1960s, the predominant international presence in both communities has been Latino, with the majority of immigrants coming from El Salvador, Guatemala and other Central American countries. Since the early 1970s, like other areas of the nation, Adams Morgan had seen a growing influx of immigrants from Africa, Asia and the Caribbean, as well. Gentrification and the resulting high cost of housing, however, have displaced many immigrants and long-time African American residents, particularly those with young children. Many small businesses have also been displaced. The community still retains a degree of diversity, most evident in its array of international shops and restaurants. Restaurants in Adams Morgan offer ethnic cuisines, among them Spanish, Ethiopian, Guatemalan, Mexican, Italian, Dutch, Vietnamese, Ghanaian, Cajun, Brazilian, Palestinian, Peruvian, Indian, Israeli, Thai, Lebanese, Eritrean, and Chinese.\n\nAdams Morgan also has become a thriving spot for night life, with a number of bars and clubs featuring live music. Over 90 establishments possess liquor licenses, putting it on level with other popular nightlife areas like Georgetown and Dupont Circle. Local stores along the 18th Street corridor were rapidly replaced with late-night establishments, leading to a moratorium on new liquor licenses by the Alcohol Beverage Control Board in 2000 after successful lobbying by resident groups. The moratorium was renewed in 2004, but eased to allow new restaurant licenses.\n\nAlthough many immigrants and African-American residents have left Adams Morgan, the long-time institutions that meet the needs of Latinos and other non English-speaking residents ontinue to serve immigrants and their families. Adams Morgan is home to Mary's Center, a clinic focusing on healthcare delivery to Spanish-speaking patients, and the Latino Economic Development Corporation, as well as numerous businesses and churches that employ and cater to immigrants. Adjacent Mt. Pleasant also hosts a number of commercial enterprises, social service agencies and other institutions that help to anchor local immigrants to the area.\n\nAdams Morgan continues to show linguistic and cultural diversity of its public schools. Many of the families served live beyond the boundaries established for routine student enrollment; however, Adams, Reed, and H.D. Cooke elementary schools all have international populations, with children from well over 30 nations in attendance. Latino and African-American children comprise the majority of students in the public schools, and virtually all are children of color. \n\nThe second Sunday of September, the neighborhood hosts the Adams Morgan Day Festival, a multicultural street celebration with live music and food and crafts booths. And, weather permitting, every Saturday—except during the coldest winter months—local growers sell fresh, organically grown produce and herbs; baked and canned goods; cheeses; cold-pressed apple juice and fresh flowers at the farmers market, in operation in the same location for more than 30 years. Also on summer Saturdays, the Western Art Market is open at the Marie Reed School.\n\nIn the 1960s, the neighborhood's attractions included the Avignon Freres bakery and restaurant, the Café Don restaurant, the Ontario motion picture theater, and the Showboat Lounge jazz nightclub. In the 1980s, Hazel's featured live blues and jazz. Its soul food offerings made it a favorite of black jazz musicians like Dizzy Gillespie when they came to town.\n\nThe area is not directly served by the Metrorail system. The nearest station, Woodley Park-Zoo/Adams Morgan (Red Line) is in the Woodley Park neighborhood, but was renamed in 1999 to reflect the station's proximity to Adams Morgan. The nearest station on the Green Line is Columbia Heights. In March 2009, the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) began operating a DC Circulator bus route connecting the center of Adams Morgan with both Metro stations. The area is also served by a number of WMATA Metrobus lines.\n\nAdams Morgan is in the service area of Advisory Neighborhood Commission 1C. The boundaries of ANC 1C are 16th Street NW on the east, Harvard Street NW and Rock Creek Park on the north, Rock Creek Park and Connecticut Avenue on the west, and Florida Avenue and U Street on the south.\n\n", "id": "302590", "title": "Adams Morgan"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302591", "text": "Foxhall (Washington, D.C.)\n\nFoxhall is a rich neighborhood in Washington, D.C.. It is bordered by Reservoir Road on the north side and Foxhall Road on the west and south sides. Glover-Archibold Park makes up the eastern border.\nThe first homes were constructed along Reservoir Road and Greenwich Park Way in the mid-1920s. By the end of December, 1927, some 150 homes had been erected, and the community given the name of Foxhall Village.\n\nFoxhall is mostly residential. Foxhall has a distinct architecture. The vast majority of the homes are a brick Tudor style.\n\n", "id": "302591", "title": "Foxhall (Washington, D.C.)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302593", "text": "Judiciary Square, Washington, D.C.\n\nJudiciary Square is a neighborhood in Northwest Washington, D.C.. It has various federal and municipal courthouses and a number of important federal and municipal office buildings. Judiciary Square is roughly between Pennsylvania Avenue to the south, H Street NW to the north, 6th Street to the west, and the I-395 access tunnel to the east.\n\nThe center of the Judiciary Square neighborhood is an actual plaza by the name of Judiciary Square, so named because it is adjacent to or inclusive of most of the courthouse buildings in the area. The square is between 4th and 5th Streets, with D Street to the south and F Street to the north.\n\nAmong the buildings in Judiciary Square are:\n\nThe neighborhood is served by the Judiciary Square station on the Red Line of the Washington Metro.\n\nDuring the first half of the 19th century, Judiciary Square was mostly residential. Its proximity to the courthouses drew a number of lawyers, judges, and clerks to the neighborhood, while its location between the White House and the Capitol made it ideal for government employees. Among its most prominent residents were Missouri Senator Thomas Hart Benton, Vice President John C. Calhoun, and Daniel Webster. As of 2006, however, nearly all of the once plentiful rowhouses in the area were gone, with the remaining houses mostly centered around the intersection of 5th and D Streets.\n\nAround the turn of the 20th century, the eastern side of Judiciary Square became an enclave of Italian immigrants in Washington - the equivalent of a Little Italy (although it was never called that). The Italian neighborhood rested on the eastern edge of the square proper, stretching eastward to about 2nd Street NW. The heart of the community was Holy Rosary Church, a chapel built at 3rd and F Streets NW. The neighborhood lasted well into the 20th century, with a particular surge of Italian immigrants in the 1950s and 60s; in the mid 1970s, however, construction of the I-395 northbound extension through the city gutted about half of the neighborhood and forced its remaining residents to move away from the heavy commuter traffic. Today the former Italian enclave is dominated by Federal office buildings and law offices for the trial attorneys who argue in Judiciary Square courthouses, although Holy Rosary Church remains standing and continues to draw a heavily Italian congregation along with its \"Casa Italia\" cultural center next door.\n", "id": "302593", "title": "Judiciary Square, Washington, D.C."}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302595", "text": "James Jabara\n\nJames \"Jabby\" Jabara (10 October 1923, Muskogee, Oklahoma – 17 November 1966) was the first American pilot to shoot down 5 Mig-15 airplanes in Korea. He was then transferred to Washington DC for duty before returning to K-14 Kimpo, Korea. He was the Executive Officer in the 334th Fighter Interceptor Squadron. While stationed there he was responsible for 10 more Mig kills thus making him a triple ace. \n\nJabara's father operated a grocery store at the corner of 3rd and Martin Luther King streets. At an early age the family moved to Kansas. According to newspaper reports he died in a car crash along with a daughter in 1966. He was also a fighter pilot in world war 2. In Korea he was flying F-86 Sabre Jets in the 334th Fighter Interceptor Squadron formerly known as the Fighting Eagles Squadron formed in England before we entered world war 2.\n", "id": "302595", "title": "James Jabara"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302604", "text": "Walter Schachner\n\nWalter Schachner (born 1 February 1957 in Leoben, Austria) is a retired Austrian football striker and former Austrian national team player. He is now working as football coach for LASK Linz for Austrias Erste Liga.\nHe started his professional career with DSV Leoben in the second division. After one and a half season he was nominated for Austrias national football team although he was playing in the 2. league. After three years with Austria Wien he played seven years in Italy for AC Cesena, Torino Calcio, SC Pisa and US Avellino. After returning from Italy he played for different clubs in Austria in the upper three divisions. He played his last match in the final round of the 2000/01 season for FC Kärnten whre he was coach at this time.\n\nFor Austria he played 64 matches and scored 23 goals. He was member of the squad for the FIFA World Cup 1978 and 1982. 1978 he was in the starting team in the 3:2 win versus Germany (Miracle of Cordoba).\n\nHis first club was the FC Zeltweg which he promoted from 4th to 3rd division. His first team in professional football was FC Kärnten in the First league. They promoted to the Bundesliga. 2002 he was coach of FK Austria Wien but was replaced by Christoph Daum in October despite the fact that the team was 7 points ahead of the second in the league. Only a few days later he became coach of the GAK from Graz. With GAK he won the Championship in 2004.\n\nFrom 2006 till 2007 he was coach of TSV 1860 München then he came back to Austria and managed FC Kärnten again. From 2008 to 2010 he managed Admira Wacker Mödling. The first year they reached the Cup final. 2010 he was replaced by Dietmar Kühbauer. \n2011 he became coach of LASK Linz but could not avoid the relegation to the First League.\n\n\n", "id": "302604", "title": "Walter Schachner"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302612", "text": "Yashoda\n\nYasoda/Yashoda () was the wife of Nanda in the Puranic books of Hinduism.\n", "id": "302612", "title": "Yashoda"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302619", "text": "Edvard Beneš\n", "id": "302619", "title": "Edvard Beneš"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302632", "text": "To Catch a Killer\n\nTo Catch a Killer is a television movie from 1992. It was directed by Eric Till, and starred Brian Dennehy and Michael Riley. The movie is based on the true story of the pursuit of American serial killer John Wayne Gacy.\n\n", "id": "302632", "title": "To Catch a Killer"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302634", "text": "Kazimierz Świątek\n\nKazimierz Świątek (; born October 21, 1914 – died July 21, 2011) was a Roman Catholic Cardinal in Belarus. He was sentenced to death by the Soviet Union, but escaped after two months. He was later spent nine years hard labor by the Gulag and survived.\n\nŚwiątek was born at Valga in the Apostolic Administration of Estonia on October 21, 1914. He graduated from the Major Seminary in Pinsk, Belarus. Świątek was ordained as a priest on April 8, 1939 He was sent to work in Pruzhany. \n\nIn Pruzhany in 1939, Świątek was accused of spying. He was found guilty in Stalinist show trial, and sentenced to death. A \"show trial\" is a highly public trial where the sentence has been decided before the trial starts. When German troops gained control of the territory, Świątek was able to escape from prison and avoid his execution.\n\nŚwiątek was arrested by the KGB on December 18, 1944. He Minsk until July 21, 1945. Świątek was sentenced to 10 years of hard labor in the Gulag concentration camps. He spent two years in Mariinsk, Siberia, and seven years north of the polar circle in Vorkuta and Inta. He release on June 16, 1954. Świątek returned to Pinsk and his pastoral work in the cathedral parish.\n\nOn April 13, 1991, Pope John Paul II appointed the 77 year old Świątek the first archbishop of the new archdiocese of Minsk-Mohilev. He was also appointed the Apostolic Administrator of the diocese of Pinsk.\n\nOn November 26, 1994, Pope John Paul II named Świątek Cardinal. On February 11, 1999, Cardinal Świątek was elected the first president of the Conference of Catholic Bishops in Belarus. On the 14th of June 2006 Pope Benedict XVI accepted Świątek's resignation from the pastoral care of the Archdiocese of Minsk.\n\n", "id": "302634", "title": "Kazimierz Świątek"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302651", "text": "Roland Petit\n\nRoland Petit (13 January 1924 – 10 July 2011) was a French choreographer who wrote dances for Rudolf Nureyev and was later in charge of the Paris Opera. \n\nHe was born in 1924 at Villemomble, France and began ballet lessons at the age of nine at the Paris Opera's School of Dance. After World War II, Petit started several ballet companies in Paris, as well as creating 11 ballets for the Paris Opera. He worked in Hollywood for four years and choreographed the 1953 ballet \"The Lady in the Ice\" with Orson Welles. He also worked on movies including \"Hans Christian Andersen\" starring Danny Kaye (1952), \"Daddy Long Legs\" with Fred Astaire and Leslie Caron (1955) and \"Anything Goes\" with Bing Crosby and Jeanmaire (1956).\n\nIn 1970 he was head of the Paris Opera and wrote works for Nureyev and Margot Fonteyn. He then did the choreography for the Casino de Paris. He has also worked with the San Francisco Ballet, the Bolshoi (Moscow), La Scala (Milan), the Asami Maki Ballet (Tokyo) and the National Ballet of China. He spent the last part of his life working with the National Ballet of Marseille-Roland Petit. \n", "id": "302651", "title": "Roland Petit"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302652", "text": "Malay Archipelago\n\nThe Malay Archipelago refers to the archipelago between mainland Southeastern Asia and Australia.\n\nIt has also been called the East Indies, the Indo-Australian Archipelago, Indonesian Archipelago and other names over time. \n\nThe archipelago is between the Indian and Pacific Oceans. The group has over 25,000 islands. It is the largest archipelago by area, and third by number of islands in the world. It includes Indonesia, the Philippines, Singapore, Brunei, East Malaysia and East Timor. \n\nThe island of New Guinea or islands of Papua New Guinea are not always included in definitions of the Malay Archipelago. The Indonesian Moluccas are included in the archipelago.\n\nThe Malay Archipelago is the place where two large tectonic plates meet, and is an area where orogeny (mountains) and volcanoes are common. \n\nThe Wallace Line is a key term in biogeography. It passes between Bali and Lombok, which are separated by a passage of water which is both deep and fast. On the one side are Australasian species, and on the other side Asian species. The natural history of the area was investigated by Alfred Russel Wallace, who spent eight years in the Spice Islands.\n", "id": "302652", "title": "Malay Archipelago"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302654", "text": "Lucian Freud\n\nLucian Michael Freud (December 8, 1922 — July 20, 2011) was a Anglo-German painter. He is regarded as having been one of the greatest painters of the human form. He was born in Berlin in 1922, and moved with his family to England in 1933 to escape from the Nazis. He became a British citizen in 1939. His father, an architect, was the son of Sigmund Freud. During World War II, Freud studied art as well as working as a sailor in the British Merchant Navy. His brother was Clement Freud (1924-2009).\n\nHe painted portraits which have been described as being brutally honest; he did not try to make people look good. He often painted them nude, with the faces staring straight ahead. He used thick layers of paint, impasto, using colours of green, grey and purple, which he blended to with pink to suggest skin color. He was popular for a while in the 1960's, but his work was rediscovered in 1987 after an exhibition in the US. In 2008 his painting “Benefits Supervisor Sleeping” was sold for US$33.6 million — the most ever paid for a painting by a living artist. This painting was of a fat nude woman asleep on a couch.\n\nHe was made a member of the Order of Merit in 1993. This honour, given by the Queen, is limited to only 24 people who have achieved distinction in the arts, science or other areas.\n\nHe died in London after a short illness.\n", "id": "302654", "title": "Lucian Freud"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302657", "text": "Parthian language\n\nThe Parthian language is an old Iranian language. It has been spoken in the northeast of Iran, in the region called Parthia. The main time of this language was about 248 B.C. until 224 A.D. That was during the Parthian Empire. Parthian is an Indo-European languages.\n\nAt the time of Sassanid Empire, the Parthian language was destroyed. Middle Persian replaced it.\n\nThere are many words in Armenian that came from Parthian.\n", "id": "302657", "title": "Parthian language"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302666", "text": "President of the Czech Republic\n\nThe President of the Czech Republic is head of state of the Czech Republic. The first President took office in 1993. \n", "id": "302666", "title": "President of the Czech Republic"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302671", "text": "Wallace Line\n\nThe Wallace Line (or 'Wallace's Line') is a boundary that separates the ecozone of Asia and the Australasian ecozone. The transitional zone is sometimes called \"Wallacea\".\n\nPlants and animals related to Asian species are found to the north-west. Australasian species are found mainly to the south-east, with some Asian species. The line is named after Alfred Russel Wallace, who noticed this clear dividing line during his travels through the East Indies in the 19th century. \n\nThe line runs through Indonesia, between Borneo and Sulawesi (Celebes); and through the Lombok Strait between Bali (in the west) and Lombok (in the east). \n\nThe distance between Bali and Lombok is only about 35 kilometers. Surprisingly, the distributions of many bird species observe the line, because many birds do not cross even the smallest stretches of open ocean water. Some bats have distributions that cross the Wallace Line, but other mammals are generally limited to one side or the other; an exception is the Crab-eating Macaque. Other groups of plants and animals show differing patterns, but the overall pattern is striking and reasonably consistent.\n\nThe term 'Wallace's Line' was first used by Huxley in 1868.\n\nThe root cause of Wallace's line is that the ancient supercontinent Gondwana was separated entirely from other parts of the world after Pangaea broke up. Australasia and its smaller islands were part of Gondwana, and that is why their fauna is so different from that of south-east Asia. Wallace's line marks where part of the old Gondwana plate touches part of the old Laurasia plate.\n\nDuring Quaternary ice age cold periods, when the , both Asia and Australia were joined with their respective islands. The deep water between those two large continental shelf areas was — for over 50 million years — a barrier that kept the flora and fauna of Australia separated from that of Asia. Wallacea consists of islands that were never recently connected by dry land to either of the continental land masses, and thus was populated by organisms capable of crossing the straits between islands. 'Weber's Line' runs through this area (rather to the east of centre), at the tipping point between dominance by species of Asian vs. species of Australian origin.\n\n", "id": "302671", "title": "Wallace Line"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302682", "text": "Japanese macaque\n\nThe Japanese macaque, \"Macaca fuscata\",is also known as the snow monkey. It is a tough monkey that lives in the high mountains of the island of Honshū in Japan. There are two things that make these monkeys different from other primates: they live in below-zero temperatures, and they like to warm themseves and relax in hot springs. \n\nMacaques eat fruit, flowers, seeds, bark, leaves, shrimp, and insects.\n\nMacaques weigh around 12 kilograms and can grow up to 70cm. They have short tails.\n", "id": "302682", "title": "Japanese macaque"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302685", "text": "Macaque\n\nThe macaques are a genus (\"Macaca\") of Old World monkeys of the subfamily Cercopithecinae. The 22 species of macaques live in sub-Saharan Africa, and more widely in Asia. One species is the well-known Gibraltar 'ape'. Macaques are of some interest to human researchers for their social structures, and their usefulness in animal testing, particularly regarding eyesight. \n\nMacaques have a very intricate social structure and hierarchy. If a macaque of a lower level in the social chain has eaten berries and none are left for a higher-level macaque, then the one higher in status can, within this social organization, remove the berries from the other monkey's mouth.\n\nIn 2014 selfies taken by a crested black macaque seemed to establish a legal precedent, after the Wikimedia Foundation rejected a copyright claim. \n\nThe photos had been sold widely by David Slater, a professional nature photographer, whose camera was temporarily carried away by a group of macaques. After the photos were uploaded to Wikipedia, the organisation refused to delete them, claiming \"This file is in the public domain, because as the work of a non-human animal, it has no human author in whom copyright is vested.\n", "id": "302685", "title": "Macaque"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302696", "text": "Geek\n\nThe word geek is a slang word. It has many different meanings. It can mean a person who enjoys computers and knows a lot about them. It used to mean a carnival worker \"who bit the heads off of chickens and rats.\" One dictionary says that a geek is \"a peculiar or otherwise dislikable person, especially one who is perceived to be overly intellectual\". This means \"a strange and un-likeable person, especially one who is thought to be very clever\", in simple English.\n\nThis word comes from English dialect words (words that are used in certain places) \"geek, geck\": fool, freak; from Low German \"geck\", from Middle Low German. A different form of the word \"geck\" is still used in Dutch and Afrikaans \"gek\": crazy. Other forms of \"geck\" are also used in some German dialects, and in the Alsatian word \"Gickeleshut\": geek's hat, used in carnivals.\n\nIn 18th century Austria-Hungary, \"Gecken\" were freaks shown by some circuses.\nIn 19th century, in North-America, the term \"geek\" referred to a freak in circus side-shows (see also freak show). In some cases, its performance included biting the head off a live chicken. The 1976 edition of the \"American Heritage Dictionary\" included only the definition regarding geek shows.\n\nThe word is often used to be rude or mean to someone. However, it can also be used without meaning to be hurtful, or with pride. An example is the 'Geek Squad' of the Best Buy company.\n\nThe meaning of geek has changed much over time, and there is no longer a single meaning. The words nerd, gimp, dweeb, dork, spod and gump have similar meanings as geek. But many people choose to say that these words mean slightly different things. However, the differences are not agreed on. In a 2007 interview on \"The Colbert Report\", Richard Clarke said the difference between nerds and geeks is \"geeks get it done.\" Julie Smith described a geek as \"a bright young man turned inward, poorly socialized, who felt so little kinship with his own planet that he routinely traveled to the ones invented by his favorite authors, who thought of that secret, dreamy place his computer took him to as cyberspace—somewhere exciting, a place more real than his own life, a land he could conquer, not a drab teenager's room in his parents' house.\"\n\nOther meanings include:\n\nThe word \"geek\" is in Robert Heinlein's 1952 short story \"The Year of the Jackpot\". The word appears meaning the modern definition.\n\nBeing called a \"geek\" is usually an insult. The word is now often a nice thing to say, meaning that the person it is describing has extraordinary technical skill. Geek Pride Day has been observed on May 25 in Spain since 2006 (May 25 being the world premiere date of Star Wars and also Towel Day). The holiday promotes the right to be nerdy or geeky, and to express it in public without feeling bad. A new meeting, Geek.Kon, is held in Madison, Wisconsin to celebrate all things geek.\n\nThe website BoardGameGeek is an online community of boardgamers who see themselves as geeks at boardgame meetings; they call their website \"The Geek\", for short. Technical support services such as Geek Squad use the term \"geek\" to show that they have helpful technical abilities. In recent history, some geeks have grown a geek culture, such as geek humor and odd references on t-shirts. The so-called \"geek chic\" trend is a deliberate affectation of geek or nerd traits as a fashion statement. Nonetheless, the derogatory definition of geeks remains that of a person only thinking about his area of interest at the cost of social skills, personal hygiene, and status.\n\nThere has been criticism over the widespread appropriation of the terms \"geek\" and \"nerd\" as self descriptors. Certain people who would have most likely not been described as such under the traditional stereotype have argued this. Along with efforts to de-emphasize the negative social aspects, in recent years there have been arguments for de-emphasizing the necessity for having noticeably high levels of intelligence or technical aptitude. This has resulted in the desire to redefine the term geek rather as any person who pursues a passionate interest in anything regardless of genre, is creative, and individualistic. Arguments against the revisionist definitions, however, state that it is not only unnecessary, but it completely contradicts the traditional accepted definition of the terms which distinctly refer to persons who are noticeably above average intelligence, usually good at things in technically demanding fields, and socially awkward or alienated to a certain extent.\n\n\"Geek chic\" is a phrase that means a person who has stereotypically \"geek\" features including black-rimmed glasses, T-shirts with geek in-jokes, and more technically complex things.\n\nThere are many ways of looking at the term \"geek chic\", with heavy black-rimmed glasses being the one defining thing as far as the press is concerned. Wearing them is sufficiently notable to have celebrities like David Beckham, Justin Timberlake and Myleene Klass being reported as \"trying geek chic\". David Tennant, the Tenth Doctor in \"Doctor Who\", has also described the look of his bespectacled character as having \"a bit of geek chic\".\n\nGeeks themselves think that the term is used for \"reclaiming the geek identity as something not only meaningful, but also stylish.\" - for this usage, more than just glasses are needed, and so the term has a wider meaning, being applied to home fittings and objects as well as clothes. In this usage, the term \"geek chic\" can even be used as a positive contrast to the somewhat more negative term \"geeky\".\n\nGeek chic is not to be confused with preppie fashion, which is more widely to do with a conservative image rather than geek culture. Instead, much of the geek chic image borrows from various other youth fashions such as goth, hippie, and bohemian among others, but t-shirts with geeky in-jokes seem to originate from the geeks themselves. Shirt designers who tailor to geeks offer rewards for the best ideas.\n\nThe company of has trademarked \"Geek Squad\" as the name of its computer repair service. Best Buy has fought the trademarks of a dozen other companies, including Geek Rescue, Rent a Geek, and . It is also fighting with Newegg over the use of \"Take it from a Geek\" on Newegg's website. The NBC television show \"Chuck\" wanted to use \"Geek Squad\" to describe the main characters' job. But Best Buy asked for them to change the name. So the characters on \"Chuck\" were called \"Nerd Herd\" instead.\n\n", "id": "302696", "title": "Geek"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302703", "text": "42 (answer)\n\n42 is the \"Answer to the Ultimate Question of Life, the Universe, and Everything\" in \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" books.\n\nDeep Thought, the second greatest computer worked out the answer \"42\", which is right. But men did not know what to do, because nobody knew what the question was.\n\nIt takes Deep Thought 7½ million years to compute and check the answer, which turns out to be 42. Deep Thought points out that the answer seems meaningless because the beings who instructed it never actually knew what the Question was.\n\nWhen asked to produce The Ultimate Question, Deep Thought says that it cannot. It can help to design an even more powerful computer, which can. This new computer will incorporate living beings into the \"computational matrix\" and will run for ten million years. It is the planet Earth.\n", "id": "302703", "title": "42 (answer)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302704", "text": "Pleumeur-Bodou\n\nPleumeur-Bodou is a commune. It is found in the region Bretagne in the Côtes-d'Armor department in the west of France.\n\nPleumeur-Bodou is twinned with:\n", "id": "302704", "title": "Pleumeur-Bodou"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302707", "text": "Northern Virginia military shootings\n\nThe Northern Virginia military shootings were several attacks by a man shooting a rifle at empty military buildings. The shots were fired in October and November 2010. Experts looked at the bullets left at the various places. They could see that all of the shots were from the same rifle.\n\nThe first shooting was aimed at the National Museum of the Marine Corps in Triangle, Virginia on October 16, 2010. Some bullets from a high-velocity rifle went through the atrium skylight. The second shooting happened on October 19, 2010 shortly before 5 a.m. Someone shot at the south side of The Pentagon in Arlington, Virginia. The bullets broke windows on the third and fourth floors. Special glass stopped the bullets from entering the building. The offices behind those windows were empty because of repairs. The Pentagon Reservation was temporarily closed because the police searched the area for evidence. The building was reopened about 5:40 a.m. The Joint Terrorism Task Force is leading the investigation into the incident. In the third shooting, the same rifle shot the Marine Corps Museum again on October 29. The same rifle was used to attack a Marine Corps recruiting center in Chantilly, Virginia on October 26.\nThese attacks made the organizers of the October 31, 2010 Marine Corps Marathon upgrade the safety measures. The race was run without problems. On November 3, police announced that the same rifle was used to shoot at a United States Coast Guard recruiting center in Woodbridge, Virginia on late November 1 or early November 2.\n\nThe person behind the attacks remained unknown until June 17, 2011 when Yonathan Melaku was arrested. He is a 22 year old naturalized Ethiopian immigrant and Marine Corps Reserve Lance Corporal. He was found at Arlington National Cemetery while it was closed. He was carrying spent shell casings, a notebook containing references to the Taliban and Osama bin Laden, and plastic bags filled with ammonium nitrate, a common component of homemade explosives. He also left his car parked in the woods near the Pentagon, police said. He had also been recently charged with breaking into 27 cars in suburban Washington. The investigation of the incident connected Melaku to the shootings. On June 23, 2011, he was charged with two counts of willfully injuring the property of the United States. If he is convicted of those charges, he could go to prison for 20 years. Melaku is also charged with two counts of using a firearm during a violent crime. If he is convicted of those charges, he could go to prison for the rest of his life. More charges are possible.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation is working with the Fairfax County Police, the Prince William County police and the Pentagon Force Protection Agency to investigate the case.\n", "id": "302707", "title": "Northern Virginia military shootings"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302711", "text": "Molecular symmetry\n\nMolecular symmetry is a basic idea in chemistry. It is about the symmetry of molecules. It puts molecules into groups according to their symmetry. It can predict or explain many of a molecule's chemical properties. \n\nChemists study symmetry to explain how crystals are made up and how chemicals react. The molecular symmetry of the reactants help predict how the product of the reaction is made up and the energy needed for the reaction.\n\nMolecular symmetry can be studied several different ways. Group theory is the most popular idea. Group theory is also useful in studying the symmetry of molecular orbitals. This is used in the Hückel method, ligand field theory, and the Woodward–Hoffmann rules. Another idea on a larger scale is the use of crystal systems to describe crystallographic symmetry in bulk materials.\nScientists find molecular symmetry by using X-ray crystallography and other forms of spectroscopy. Spectroscopic notation is based on facts taken from molecular symmetry.\n\nPhysicist Hans Bethe used characters of point group operations in his study of ligand field theory in 1929. Eugene Wigner used group theory to explain the selection rules of atomic spectroscopy. The first character tables were compiled by László Tisza (1933), in connection to vibrational spectra. Robert Mulliken was the first to publish character tables in English (1933). E. Bright Wilson used them in 1934 to predict the symmetry of vibrational normal modes. The complete set of 32 crystallographic point groups was published in 1936 by Rosenthal and Murphy.\nMathematical group theory has been adapted to study of symmetry in molecules. \nThe symmetry of a molecule can be described by 5 types of symmetry elements. \n\n\n\nEach of the five symmetry elements has a symmetry operation. People use a caret symbol (^) to talk about the operation rather than the symmetry element. So, Ĉ is the rotation of a molecule around an axis and Ê is the identity operation. A symmetry element can have more than one symmetry operation associated with it. Since C is equivalent to E, S to σ and S to \"i\", all symmetry operations can be classified as either proper or improper rotations.\n\nA point group is a set of symmetry operations forming a mathematical \"group\", for which at least one \"point\" remains fixed under all operations of the group. A crystallographic point group is a point group which will work with translational symmetry in three dimensions. There are a total of 32 crystallographic point groups, 30 of which are relevant to chemistry. Scientists use Schoenflies notation to classify point groups. \n\nMathematics define a \"group\". A set of symmetry operations form a group when:\nThe order of a group is the number of symmetry operations for that group.\nFor example, the point group for the water molecule is C, with symmetry operations E, C, σ and σ'. Its order is thus 4. Each operation is its own inverse. As an example of closure, a C rotation followed by a σ reflection is seen to be a σ' symmetry operation: σ*C = σ'. (Note that \"Operation A followed by B to form C\" is written BA = C).\n\nAnother example is the ammonia molecule, which is pyramidal and contains a three-fold rotation axis as well as three mirror planes at an angle of 120° to each other. Each mirror plane contains an N-H bond and bisects the H-N-H bond angle opposite to that bond. Thus ammonia molecule belongs to the C point group which has order 6: an identity element E, two rotation operations C and C, and three mirror reflections σ, σ' and σ\".\n\nThe following table contains a list of point groups with representative molecules. The description of structure includes common shapes of molecules based on VSEPR theory.\n\nSymmetry operations can be written in many ways. A good way to write them is by using matrices. For any vector representing a point in Cartesian coordinates, left-multiplying it gives the new place of the point transformed by the symmetry operation. Composition of operations is done by matrix multiplication. In the C example this is:\nAlthough an infinite (going on forever) number of such representations (ways of showing things) exist, the irreducible representations (or \"irreps\") of the group are commonly used, as all other representations of the group can be described as a linear combination of the irreducible representations. (The irreps span the vector space of the symmetry operations.) Chemists use the irreps to sort the symmetry groups and to talk about their properties.\n\nFor each point group, a character table summarizes information on its symmetry operations and on its irreducible representations. The tables are square because there are always equal numbers of irreducible representations and groups of symmetry operations.\n\nThe table itself is made of characters which show how a particular irreducible representation changes when a particular symmetry operation is applied (put to it). Any symmetry operation in a molecule's point group acting on the molecule itself will leave it unchanged. But for acting on a general entity (thing), such as a vector or an orbital, this does not have to be what happens. The vector could change sign or direction, and the orbital could change type. For simple point groups, the values are either 1 or -1: 1 means that the sign or phase (of the vector or orbital) is unchanged by the symmetry operation (\"symmetric\") and -1 denotes a sign change (\"asymmetric\"). \n\nThe representations are labeled according to a set of conventions:\n\n\nThe tables also tell the Cartesian basis vectors, rotations about them, and quadratic functions of them transformed by the symmetry operations of the group. The table also shows which irreducible representation transforms in the same way (on the right hand side of the tables). Chemists use this because chemically important orbitals (in particular \"p\" and \"d\" orbitals) have the same symmetries as these entities. \n\nThe character table for the C symmetry point group is given below:\nFor example, water (HO) which has the C symmetry described above. The 2\"p\" orbital of oxygen is oriented perpendicular to the plane of the molecule and switches sign with a C and a σ'(yz) operation, but remains unchanged with the other two operations (obviously, the character for the identity operation is always +1). This orbital's character set is thus {1, -1, 1, -1}, corresponding to the B irreducible representation. Similarly, the 2\"p\" orbital is seen to have the symmetry of the A irreducible representation, 2\"p\" B, and the 3\"d\" orbital A. These assignments and others are in the rightmost two columns of the table.\n\n", "id": "302711", "title": "Molecular symmetry"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302716", "text": "J. Paul Getty\n\nJean Paul Getty (December 15, 1892 – June 6, 1976) was an American industrialist. He founded the Getty Oil Company. In 1957 \"Fortune\" magazine named him the richest living American, and the 1966 Guinness Book of Records named him as the world's richest private citizen, worth an estimated $1,200 million. At his death, he was worth more than $2 billion. A book published in 1996 ranked him as the 67th richest American who ever lived. (The book ranked his wealth as a percentage of the United States gross national product.) Despite his wealth, Getty was known for being a miser.\n\nGetty enjoyed collecting art and antiquities. His collection formed the basis of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, California, and over $661 million of his estate was left to the museum after his death. He established the J. Paul Getty Trust in 1953. The trust is the world's wealthiest art institution. It operates the J. Paul Getty Museum, the Getty Foundation, the Getty Research Institute, and the Getty Conservation Institute.\n\nHis father George Getty owned a petroleum business in Minneapolis, Minnesota. J. Paul was one of the first people in the world with a fortune estimated at over one billion U.S. dollars.\n\nHe enrolled at the University of Southern California, then at University of California, Berkeley before graduating in 1914 from Magdalen College, Oxford with degrees in economics and political science. He spent his summers between studies working on his father's oil fields in Oklahoma. Running his own oil company in Tulsa, he made his first million by 1916. However, in 1917, he announced that he was retiring to become a Los Angeles-based playboy. Although he eventually returned to business, Getty had lost his father's respect. Just before George Franklin Getty died in 1930, he believed that Jean Paul would destroy the family company, and told him so.\n\nAfter taking a few years off from the money-making grind to enjoy spending his earnings on women, Getty returned to Oklahoma in 1919. During the 1920s he added about $3 million to his already sizable estate. His succession of marriages and divorces (three during the 1920s, five throughout his life) so distressed his father, however, that J. Paul inherited a mere $500,000 of the $10 million the senior Getty left at his death in 1930.\n\nGetty carefully invested his resources during the Great Depression. Getty acquired Pacific Western Oil Corporation. He began the acquisition (completed in 1953) of the Mission Corporation, which included Tidewater Oil and Skelly Oil. In 1967 the billionaire merged these holdings into Getty Oil.\n\nBeginning in 1949, Getty paid Ibn Saud $9.5 million in cash and $1 million a year for a 60-year concession to a tract of barren land near the border of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. No oil had ever been discovered there. After spending $30 million over four years, oil was discovered there. From 1953 onward, Getty's gamble produced a year, which contributed greatly to the fortune which made him one of the richest people in the world.\n\nGetty learned to speak Arabic which helped his unparalleled expansion into the Middle East. Getty owned the controlling interest in nearly 200 businesses, including Getty Oil. Associates identified his overall wealth at between $2 billion and $4 billion. It did not come easily, perhaps inspiring Getty's widely quoted remark—\"The meek shall inherit the earth, but not the mineral rights.\"\n\nHe moved to England in the 1950s and loved English culture (Anglophile). He lived and worked at his 16th-century Tudor estate, Sutton Place near Guildford; the traditional country house became the centre of Getty Oil and his associated companies and he used the estate to entertain his British and Arabian friends (including the British Rothschild family and numerous rulers of Middle Eastern countries). Getty lived the rest of his life in the British Isles, dying of heart failure at the age of 83 on June 6, 1976.\n\nGetty was married and divorced five times. He had five sons with four of his wives:\n\nHe was quoted as saying \"A lasting relationship with a woman is only possible if you are a business failure\".\n\nGetty wrote a very successful book entitled \"How to Be Rich\".\n\nGetty famously had a pay phone installed at Sutton Place, helping to seal his reputation as a miser. In his autobiography, he described his reasons:\n\nGetty placed dial-locks on all the regular telephones, limiting their use to authorised staff, and the coin-box telephone was installed for others. When speaking in a televised interview with Alan Whicker, Getty said that he thought guests would want to use a payphone .\n\nOn July 10, 1973 in Rome, 16 year old John Paul Getty III was kidnapped and a ransom of $17 million was demanded over the phone for his safe return. However, \"the family suspected a ploy by the rebellious teenager to extract money from his miserly grandfather.\" John Paul Getty II asked his father for the money, but was refused.\n\nIn November 1973 an envelope containing a lock of hair and a human ear was delivered to a daily newspaper. The second demand had been delayed three weeks by an Italian postal strike. The demand threatened that Paul would be further mutilated unless $3.2 million was paid: \"This is Paul’s ear. If we don’t get some money within 10 days, then the other ear will arrive. In other words, he will arrive in little bits.\"\n\nWhen the kidnappers finally reduced their demands to $3 million Getty senior agreed to pay no more than $2.2 million - the maximum that would be tax deductible. He loaned his son the remaining $800,000 at 4% interest. Paul III was found alive in southern Italy shortly after the ransom was paid. After his release Paul III called his grandfather to thank him for paying the ransom but Getty refused to come to the phone. Nine people were later arrested for the kidnapping, but only two were convicted. Paul III was permanently affected by the trauma and became a drug addict. After a stroke brought on by a cocktail of drugs and alcohol in 1981, Paul III was rendered speechless, nearly blind and partially paralyzed for the rest of his life. He died thirty years later on February 5, 2011 at the age of 54.\n\nGetty defended his initial refusal to pay the ransom on two points. First, he argued that to submit to the kidnappers' demands would immediately place his other fourteen grandchildren at the risk of copy-cat kidnappers. He added:\n\n\n\n", "id": "302716", "title": "J. Paul Getty"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302723", "text": "Paradise Lost\n\nParadise Lost is an epic poem by the 17th-century English writer John Milton. It was printed in 1667 though it was written nearly ten years earlier. The second part was printed in 1674. Most of the poem was written after Milton was blind.\n\nThe poem is about the Christian story of the Fall of Man: how Adam and Eve got out from the Garden of Eden and about the fallen angel Lucifer.\n\n", "id": "302723", "title": "Paradise Lost"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302724", "text": "Muammar al-Gaddafi\n\nMuammar Muhammad Abu Minyar al-Gaddafi( \"\" ) (c. 1942 - 20 October 2011) was a Libyan politician. He was the ruler of Libya from 1969 to 2011. \n\nMuammar al-Gaddafi was born in a tent near Qasr Abu Hadi. His family came from a small tribal group called Qadhadhfa. His family were Arabized Berber in heritage. He joined the Libyan military in 1961; the military was one of the only ways for lower class Libyans like him to rise in social status. al-Gaddafi was a colonel.\n\nHe had ruled Libya from September 1, 1969 to August 23, 2011. Gaddafi became head of state after removing King Idris from power in a 1969 bloodless coup. After the coup, Gaddafi started the Libyan Arab Republic. He was one of the longest-serving rulers in history who was not a king or a queen, because he had ruled for more than 41 years. Gaddafi used Arab socialist and Arab nationalist ideas. He published a book about his philosophical views in 1975. This book is commonly known as \"The Green Book\". In 1977, he left the power of Libya, and continued playing role of revolutionary, people called him the \"Brother Leader and Guide of the Revolution\".In the 1980s, he developed chemical weapons, because of it critics called Libya a pariah state. A Dutch investigation found that Gaddafi had built up a \"billion-dollar empire\", from assets in an international company in the oil industry. It also claims that his assets are scattered throughout much of Europe, Despite no trace or proof for even 1 billion have been found. Gaddafi had a strong interest in geo-political control, was a firm supporter of OAPEC and led a Pan-African campaign for a United States of Africa. In 1986 Libya was bombed by US, home of Gaddafi was targeted but he survived. Bombing was condemned by many nations and also by UN. In 1992, sanctions were imposed on Libya by a few western countries. After these events, Gaddafi started to have closer economic and security relations with the West. He cooperated with investigations into alleged Libyan anti-western acts, by 1999 he offered to dismantle Weapon of Mass Destruction of Libya, which would be inspected in 2003. As a result, the UN sanctions were lifted in the same year.\n\nIn February 2011 there were major violent protests against Libyan government. These came alongside other demonstrations in Tunisia, Egypt, and other parts of the Arab world. The protests quickly turned into a civil war. Gaddafi vowed to \"die a martyr\" if necessary in his fight against rebels and external forces; he also said that \"peaceful protest is one thing but armed rebellion is another.\" \n\nOn 17 May 2011 the International Criminal Court issued a request for an arrest warrant against Gaddafi for alleged crimes against humanity, which was approved on 27 June and a warrant was issued by the court.On June 2011, according to investigation made by Amnesty International, it was found that there was no evidence for many of the alleged crimes, and that the rebels had falsely blamed Gaddafi as well as the government. \n\nGaddafi was captured alive and killed in Sirte, Libya, on 20 October 2011.\n", "id": "302724", "title": "Muammar al-Gaddafi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302728", "text": "Otto Konrad\n\nOtto Konrad (born 1 November 1964) is a retired Austrian football goalkeeper. He now works as goalkeeper coach for SV Grödig in Austria's First League.\n\nHe started his professional career with his local club SK Sturm Graz. He stayed 11 years and then went to SV Austria Salzburg. With this team he reached 3 national titles and played in the 1994 UEFA Cup Final which Salzburg lost to Inter Milan. In the 1994/95 season he even scored a goal for Salzburg. This goal was voted \"Goal of the year 1994\". 1997 to 1998 he became goalkeeper of Real Zaragoza in Spain but returned to Austria where he played for GAK, DSV Leoben and PSV Salzburg.\n\nHe played 12 matches for the Austrian national football team and was member of the squad for the 1990 FIFA World Cup. At all his international career was not as successful as the club career because at this time there were a lot of good goalkeepers in Austria.\n\n", "id": "302728", "title": "Otto Konrad"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302729", "text": "Electrocyclic reaction\n\nIn organic chemistry, an electrocyclic reaction is a type of pericyclic rearrangement reaction. The reaction is electrocyclic if the result is one pi bond becoming one sigma bond or one sigma bond becoming a pi bond. Electrocyclic reactions share the following properties:\n\n\nThe torquoselectivity in an electrocyclic reaction refers to the direction that the substituents rotate. For example, the substituents in a reaction that is conrotatory can still rotate in two directions. It produces a mixture of two products that are the mirror image of each other (enantiomeric products). A reaction that is torquoselective restricts one of these directions of rotation (partially or completely) to produce a product in enantiomeric excess (where one stereoisomer is produced much more than the other).\n\nChemists are interested in electrocyclic reactions because the geometry of the molecules confirm a number of predictions made by theoretical chemists. They confirm the conservation of molecular orbital symmetry.\nThe Nazarov cyclization reaction is an electrocyclic reaction that closes a ring. It converts divinylketones to cyclopentenones. (It was discovered by Ivan Nikolaevich Nazarov (1906–1957).)\n\nAn example is the thermal ring-opening reaction of 3,4-dimethylcyclobutene. The cis isomer only yields \"cis,trans-2,4-hexadiene\". But the trans isomer gives the trans,trans diene:\n\nThe frontier-orbital method explains how this reaction works. The sigma bond in the reactant will open in a way that the resulting p-orbitals will have the same symmetry as the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) of the product (a butadiene). This can only happen with a conrotatory ring-opening that results in opposite signs for the two lobes at the broken ends of the ring. (A disrotatory ring-opening would form an anti-bond.) The following diagram shows this:\n\nThe stereospecificity of the result depends on whether the reaction proceeds through a conrotatory or disrotatory process.\n\nThe Woodward–Hoffmann rules address the conservation of orbital symmetry in electrocylic reactions.\n\nCorrelation diagrams connect the molecular orbitals of the reactant to those of the product having the same symmetry. Correlation diagrams can be drawn for the two processes.\n\nThese correlation diagrams indicate that only a conrotatory ring opening of 3,4-dimethylcyclobutene is \"symmetry allowed\" whereas only a disrotatory ring opening of 5,6-dimethylcyclohexa-1,3-diene is \"symmetry allowed\". This is because only in these cases would maximum orbital overlap occur in the transition state. Also, the formed product would be in a ground state rather than an excited state.\n\nThe Frontier Molecular Orbital Theory predicts that the sigma bond in the ring will open in a way that the resulting p-orbitals will have the same symmetry as the HOMO of the product.\n\nThe above diagram shows two examples. For the 5,6-dimethylcyclohexa-1,3-diene (top row of diagram), only a disrotatory mode would result in p-orbitals having the same symmetry as the HOMO of hexatriene. The two p-orbitals rotate in opposite directions. For the 3,4-dimethylcyclobutene (bottom row of diagram), only a conrotatory mode would result in p-orbitals having the same symmetry as the HOMO of butadiene. The p-oribtals rotate in the same direction.\n\nLight can move an electron up to an excited state that occupies a higher orbital. The excited electron will occupy the LUMO, which has a higher energy level than the electron's old orbital. If light opens the ring of 3,4-dimethylcyclobutene, the resulting electrocyclization would be occur by a disrotatory mode instead of a conrotatory mode. The correlation diagram for the allowed excited state ring opening reaction shows why:\n\nOnly a disrotatory mode, in which symmetry about a reflection plane is maintained throughout the reaction, would result in maximum orbital overlap in the transition state. Also, once again, this would result in the formation of a product that is in an excited state of comparable stability to the excited state of the reactant compound.\n\nElectrocyclic reactions occur frequently in nature. One of the most common such reactions in nature is the biosynthesis of vitamin D.\n\nThe first step involves light opening the ring of 7-dehydrocholesterol to form pre vitamin D3. This is a photochemically induced conrotatory electrocyclic reaction. The second step is a [1,7]-hydride shift to make vitamin D.\n\nAnother example is in the proposed biosynthesis of aranotin, an oxepine found in nature, and its related compounds.\n\nPhenylalanine is used to make diketopiperazine (not shown). Then enzymes epoxidate diketopiperazine to make the arene oxide. This undergoes a 6π disrotatory ring opening electrocyclization reaction to produce the uncyclized oxepine. After a second epoxidation of the ring, the nearby nucleophilic nitrogen attacks the electrophilic carbon, forming a five membered ring. The resulting ring system is a common ring system found in aranotin and its related compounds.\n\nThe benzonorcaradiene diterpenoid (A) was rearranged into the benzocycloheptatriene diterpenoid isosalvipuberlin (B) by boiling a methylene chloride solution. This transformation can be thought of as a disrotatory electrocyclic reaction, followed by two suprafacial 1,5-sigmatropic hydrogen shifts, as shown below:\n\nAn example of an electrocyclic reaction is the conrotatory thermal ring-opening of benzocyclobutane. The reaction product is a very unstable ortho-quinodimethane. This molecule can be trapped in an endo addition with a strong dienophile such as maleic anhydride to the Diels-Alder adduct. The chemical yield for the ring opening of the benzocyclobutane depicted in \"scheme 2\" is found to depend on the nature of the substituent R. With a reaction solvent such as toluene and a reaction temperature of 110 °C, the yield increases going from methyl to isobutylmethyl to trimethylsilylmethyl. The increased reaction rate for the trimethylsilyl compound can be explained by silicon hyperconjugation as the βC-Si bond weakens the cyclobutane C-C bond by donating electrons. \nAn biomimetic electrocyclic cascade reaction was discovered in relation to the isolation and synthesis of certain endiandric acids: \n", "id": "302729", "title": "Electrocyclic reaction"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302730", "text": "Arctic hare\n\nThe Arctic hare (\"Lepus arcticus\") is a social animal that lives in the frigid tundra of North America, Newfoundland, and Greenland. These hares often congregate in groups of up to 200 individuals. They hop at great speeds on their large, powerful hind legs, in a kangaroo-like fashion. The female is called a doe, the male is called a buck, and the baby hare is called a leveret. The young are born open-eyed and furry. Most hares live for about a year in the wild. \n\nThis mammal is hunted by wolves and people. The young are preyed upon by Arctic foxes, falcons, snowy owls, and ermine (short-tailed weasels).\n", "id": "302730", "title": "Arctic hare"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302732", "text": "Robert Woodward\n\nRobert Burns Woodward (April 10, 1917 – July 8, 1979) was an American organic chemist. He made many important discoveries in modern organic chemistry. He worked on the synthesis and structure of complex natural products. He worked closely with Roald Hoffmann on the theory of chemical reactions. Woodward won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for 1965.\n\nWoodward was born in Boston, Massachusetts. When he was one year old, his father died in the influenza pandemic of 1918.\n\nHe was interested in chemistry at an early age. By the time he entered high school, he had already done most of the experiments in Ludwig Gattermann's textbook of experimental organic chemistry. In 1928, Woodward asked the Consul-General of the German consulate in Boston, to send him copies of a few original papers published in German journals. He was fascinated to read Otto Diels and Kurt Alder's original communication about the Diels–Alder reaction. \n\nIn 1933, he entered the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), but did not do well enough to continue. MIT readmitted him in 1935, and by 1936 he had received the Bachelor of Science degree. Only one year later, MIT awarded him the doctorate. This was very unusual at the time, because most MIT students earned only a Bachelor of Science degree after four years. Woodward's studies were about the synthesis of the female sex hormone estrone, a natural type of estrogen. He held a Junior Fellowship at Harvard University from 1937 to 1938, and stayed at Harvard for the rest of his life. In the 1960s, Woodward was named Donner Professor of Science, a post which allowed him to spend all his time on research.\n\nIn the early 1940s Wooward was using ultraviolet spectroscopy to discover the structure of natural products. Woodward collected a large amount of information, and then worked out a series of rules, later called the Woodward's rules. These rules could be used to find out the structures of new natural products, as well as non-natural synthesized molecules. Woodward was always quick to use newly developed techniques. Woodward's discovery saved chemists from spending a lot of time using chemical methods to work out the structures of compounds.\n\nIn 1944 Woodward and William von Eggers Doering reported the synthesis of the alkaloid quinine, used to treat malaria. The synthesis was a breakthrough, as quinine was hard to get from Japanese occupied southeast Asia. In fact, Woodward's method could not be used on a practical scale, but it was a landmark for chemical synthesis. Organic synthesis was still largely a matter of trial and error, and nobody thought such complex structures could actually be constructed. Woodward showed that organic synthesis could be made into a science. Woodward's synthesis of quinine was the first of many of his very complicated and elegant syntheses.\n\nBy the 1930s, the British chemists Christopher Ingold and Robert Robinson among others had studied the mechanisms of organic reactions. They had come up with rules which could predict reactivity of organic molecules. Woodward was probably the first synthetic organic chemist who used these rules to predict what steps would work in a synthesis. \n\nDuring the late 1940s, Woodward synthesized many complex natural products including quinine, cholesterol, cortisone, strychnine, lysergic acid, reserpine, chlorophyll, cephalosporin, and colchicine. With these, Woodward opened up a new era of synthesis, sometimes called the 'Woodwardian era'. He showed that natural products could be synthesized by careful applications of the principles of physical organic chemistry, and by very careful planning.\n\nMany of Woodward's syntheses were described as spectacular by his colleagues. Before he did them, some people thought it would be impossible to create these substances in the lab. Woodward's syntheses were also described as having an element of art in them, and since then, synthetic chemists have always looked for elegance as well as utility in synthesis. His work also involved the exhaustive use of the then newly developed techniques of infrared spectroscopy and later, nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy. Another important feature of Woodward's syntheses was their attention to stereochemistry or the particular configuration of molecules in three dimensional space. Most natural products of medicinal importance are effective, for example as drugs, only when they possess a specific stereochemistry. This creates the demand for 'stereospecific synthesis', producing a compound with a defined stereochemistry. Woodward was a pioneer in showing how one could conduct reactions that were stereospecific. Many of his syntheses involved forcing a molecule into a certain configuration by installing rigid structural elements in it, another tactic that has become standard today. In this regard, especially his syntheses of reserpine and strychnine were landmarks.\n\nDuring World War II, Woodward was an advisor to the War Production Board on the penicillin project. \nWoodward also applied the technique of infrared spectroscopy and chemical degradation to determine the structures of complicated molecules. Notable among these structure determinations were santonic acid, strychnine, magnamycin and terramycin. About terramycin, Woodward's colleague and Nobel Laureate Derek Barton said:\n\"The most brilliant analysis ever done on a structural puzzle was surely the solution (1953) of the terramycin problem. It was a problem of great industrial importance, and hence many able chemists had performed an enormous amount of work trying to determine the structure. There seemed to be too much data to resolve the problem, because a significant number of observations, although experimentally correct, were very misleading. Woodward took a large piece of cardboard, wrote on it all the facts and, by thought alone, deduced the correct structure for terramycin. Nobody else could have done that at the time.\"\n\nIn each one of these cases, Woodward again showed how rational facts and chemical principles, combined with chemical intuition, could be used to achieve the task.\n\nIn the early 1950s, Woodward, and British chemist Geoffrey Wilkinson, proposed a structure for ferrocene, a compound consisting of a combination of an organic molecule with iron. This marked the beginning of the field of transition metal organometallic chemistry. The field later grew which grew to be important to the chemical industry. Wilkinson won the Nobel Prize for this work in 1973, with Ernst Otto Fischer. Some historians think that Woodward should have shared this prize along with Wilkinson. Woodward himself thought so, and voiced his thoughts in a letter sent to the Nobel Committee.\n\nWoodward won the Nobel Prize in 1965 for his synthesis of complex organic molecules. In his Nobel lecture, he described the total synthesis of the antibiotic cephalosporin, and claimed that he had pushed the synthesis schedule so that it would be completed around the time of the Nobel ceremony.\n\nIn the early 1960s, Woodward began work on what was the most complex natural product synthesized to date- vitamin B. In a remarkable collaboration with his colleague Albert Eschenmoser in Zurich, a team of almost one hundred students and postdoctoral workers worked for many years on the synthesis of this molecule. The work was finally published in 1973, and it marked a landmark in the history of organic chemistry. The synthesis included almost a hundred steps, and involved the rigorous planning and analyses that had always characterised Woodward's work. This work, more than any other, convinced organic chemists that the synthesis of any complex substance was possible, given enough time and planning. However, as of 2006, no other total synthesis of Vitamin B has been published.\n\nThat same year, based on observations that Woodward had made during the B synthesis, he and Roald Hoffmann devised rules (now called the Woodward–Hoffmann rules) for elucidating the stereochemistry of the products of organic reactions. Woodward based his ideas on his experiences as a synthetic organic chemist; he asked Hoffman to perform theoretical calculations to verify the ideas. This was done using Hoffmann's Extended Hückel method. The predictions of these rules were verified by many experiments. Hoffmann shared the 1981 Nobel Prize for this work along with Kenichi Fukui, a Japanese chemist who had done similar work using a different approach. Woodward had died two years before and so was not eligible to share this Prize.\n\nA recent paper in the journal \"Nature\" describes how mechanical stress can be used to reshape chemical reaction pathways to lead to products that apparently violate Woodward–Hoffman rules.\n\nWhile at Harvard, Woodward took on the directorship of the \nWoodward Research Institute, based at Basel, Switzerland in 1963. He also became a trustee of his alma mater, MIT, from 1966 to 1971, and of the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel.\n\nWoodward died in Cambridge, Massachusetts from a heart attack in his sleep. At the time, he was working on the synthesis of an antibiotic, erythromycin. A student of his said:\n\n\"I owe a lot to Woodward. He showed me that one could attack difficult problems without a clear idea of their outcome, but with confidence that intelligence and effort would solve them. He showed me the beauty of modern organic chemistry, and the relevance to the field of detailed careful reasoning. He showed me that one does not need to specialize. Woodward made great contributions to the strategy of synthesis, to the deduction of difficult structures, to the invention of new chemistry, and to theoretical aspects as well. He taught his students by example the satisfaction that comes from total immersion in our science. I treasure the memory of my association with this remarkable chemist.\"\n\nDuring his lifetime, Woodward authored or coauthored almost 200 publications, of which 85 are full papers. The remainder comprising preliminary communications, the text of lectures, and reviews. The pace of his scientific activity soon outstripped his capacity to publish all experimental details, and much of the work in which he participated was not published until a few years after his death. Woodward trained more than two hundred Ph.D. students and postdoctoral workers, many of whom later went on to distinguished careers. \n\nHis lectures were legendary and frequently used to last for three or four hours. [His longest known lecture defined the unit of time known as the \"Woodward\", and thereafter his other lectures were deemed to be so many \"milli-Woodwards\" long!] In many of these, he eschewed the use of slides and used to draw beautiful structures by using multicolored chalk. As a result, it was always easy to take good notes at a Woodward lecture. Typically, to begin a lecture, Woodward would arrive and lay out two large white handkerchiefs on the countertop. Upon one would be four or five colors of chalk (new pieces), neatly sorted by color, in a long row. Upon the other handkerchief would be placed an equally impressive row of cigarettes. The previous cigarette would be used to light the next one. His famous Thursday seminars at Harvard often lasted well into the night. He had a fixation with blue, and all his suits, his car, and even his parking space were coloured in blue. In one of his laboratories, his students hung a large black and white photograph of the master from the ceiling, complete with a large blue \"tie\" appended. There it hung for some years (early 1970s), until scorched in a minor laboratory fire. He detested exercise, could get along with only a few hours of sleep every night, was a heavy smoker, and enjoyed Scotch whisky and a martini or two. Hoffmann would correspond with Woodward using blue paper.\n\n\n", "id": "302732", "title": "Robert Woodward"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302735", "text": "Petrichor\n\nPetrichor () is the name of the scent of rain on dry dirt. The term was created by two Australian researchers for an article in the journal \"Nature.\n", "id": "302735", "title": "Petrichor"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302737", "text": "Citroën Xsara Picasso\n\nThe Citroën Xsara Picasso is a compact MPV from Citroën introduced in 1999. Its successor, the Citroën C4 Picasso, was introduced in 2006, but the Xsara Picasso still continued to be made until 2012.\n\n\n", "id": "302737", "title": "Citroën Xsara Picasso"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302745", "text": "Crypsis\n\nCrypsis is a word in ecology which means \"hiding\". It refers to the ways animals avoid being seen, or otherwise detected. It also includes the situation when an animal \"is\" noticed, but is not recognised for what it is. It may be either a defence against predators, or a device for predators to get near prey.\n\nMethods include camouflage, nocturnality (night-time activity), subterranean lifestyle, transparency, and mimicry. The word can also be used about eggs, and about pheromone production. Crypsis can in principle involve visual, olfactory or auditory camouflage.\n\n", "id": "302745", "title": "Crypsis"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302764", "text": "IMI Galil\n\nThe Galil is a family of Israeli small arms. They were designed by Yisrael Galil and Yaacov Lior in the late 1960s. They were made by Israel Military Industries Ltd (now Israel Weapon Industries Ltd) of Ramat HaSharon. \n\nThe Galil's design is supposed to make it work well in warm weather. It was designed from the Finnish RK 62. The RK 62 itself was designed from the Soviet AK-47 assault rifle. It was chosen as the winner of a competition for the Israel Defense Forces. This competition included many other designs. Some of these were the M16A1, Stoner 63, AK-47 and HK33. The Galil was officially brought into service in 1972. It replaced the FN FAL.\n\nThe Galil is fired by a small hammer. It has a trigger mechanism which was designed from the trigger used in the American M1 Garand. The rifle's fire has three positions: \"R\" (First letter of \"repeating\", which is a British word for semi-automatic fire); the middle position, \"A\", gives fully automatic fire; and pushing the lever fully forward turns on the safety so that the weapon can not be fired.\n\nThe weapon is made with a plastic hand guard and pistol grip. The rifle can be used with a sound suppressor. A suppressor makes the weapon quieter. The weapon has a bottle opener and wire cutter built into the bipod. The bottle opener was built in to stop damage to magazines. This was because the magazines were being used to open bottles. Wire cutters were built in to reduce the time that IDF troops took to cut down wire fences. This is because there are many wire fences in rural areas of Israel.\n\nThe barrel has a flash suppressor. It can be used to launch rifle grenades or attach a bayonet. It is possible to attach the M7 bayonet to the Galil.\n\nThe Galil gets its ammunition from a curved, steel box magazine. It can hold 35 rounds. There is a special colour-coded 12-round magazine which is used for blanks. The magazine is put into the gun in a similar way to the AK group. A special attachment can allow the Galil to use STANAG magazines.\n\nThe AR is the normal rifle version. It has a plastic handguard. The handguard can take a lot of damage before breaking. The stock of the AR can fold (to the right side).\n\nThe SAR carbine type of the AR has a shorter barrel (332 mm, 13.07in). Because the barrel is shorter, the mechanisms inside the barrel are also smaller.\n\nThe ARM version is a light machine gun. It has a handle to carry the weapon, a bipod which folds and a larger handguard. The handguard is made from wood. The wooden handguard stays cool when the weapon is being fired fully automatically. The bipod can be used as a wire cutter. The back of the handguard can be used to open bottles. This was put in to stop soldiers opening bottles with the magazines, as this damaged them.\n\nMAR stands for Micro Galil. It is a smaller version of the SAR. It weighs 2.98 kg without a magazine. The MAR gets its ammunition from a 35-round magazine. Two of these can be attached to make reloading quicker. The MAR has the same rate of fire (630-750 rounds per minute) as other 5.56 mm Galil models. An optional magazine adapter inserted inside the magazine well allows the use of standard 20 and 30-round M16 magazines. The MAR has four settings: \"S\"—weapon can not fire, \"A\"—automatic fire, \"B\"—3-round burst, \"R\"—semi-automatic fire. The MAR can have many different sights attached to it. The MAR can also be given with plastic magazines (instead of steel magazines). These weigh 0.164 kg. They can also be given with more space around the trigger so that soldiers wearing gloves can fire it.\n\nSome other types of Galil are:\n\n\n\n", "id": "302764", "title": "IMI Galil"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302768", "text": "Cannabaceae\n\nCannabaceae the hemp family of the rose order, containing 11 genera and 270 species of aromatic herbs distributed throughout temperate parts of the Northern Hemisphere. \n\nOlder authorities included the two genera, Cannabis and Humulus, in the mulberry family. These and the former hackberry family (Celtidaceae) are now included in Cannabaceae. Members of the family are erect or climbing plants with petalless flowers and dry, one-seeded fruits. Hemp (\"Cannabis\") and hop (\"Humulus\") are the only economically important species.\n", "id": "302768", "title": "Cannabaceae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302770", "text": "Urticaceae\n\nUrticaceae the nettle family comprising about 45 genera of herbs, shrubs, small trees, and a few vines, distributed primarily in tropical regions. The family is typical of the nettle order. \n\nMany species, especially the nettles (\"Urtica\") and Australian nettle trees (\"Laportea\"), have stinging hairs on the stems and leaves. The leaves are varied and the sap is usually watery. \nThe small, greenish flowers often form clusters in the leaf axils. Both male and female flowers may be borne on the same plant. The curled stamens of the male flowers straighten quickly as the flowers open, releasing the pollen.\n", "id": "302770", "title": "Urticaceae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302775", "text": "Adrian Fenty\n\nAdrian Malik Fenty (born December 6, 1970) was the sixth, and youngest Mayor of the District of Columbia. He was a national leader in urban education reform. He lost his re-election bid in the 2010 Democratic primary to Vincent C. Gray, who went on to win the general election for Mayor.\n\nFenty grew up in the Mount Pleasant neighborhood of Washington, D.C., and graduated from Mackin Catholic High School. As a teenager, he worked at Swenson's Ice Cream next to the Uptown Theatre.\n\nFenty's mother is white, and his father is African-American. Adrian Fenty is the middle child of three boys—older brother Shawn, a bicycle expert, and younger brother Jess. Their parents are runners and own a Fleet Feet athletic shoe store in the D.C. neighborhood of Adams Morgan. Adrian has run in the Cherry Blossom Ten Mile Run each year since 2004, improving his finishing time from 1:17:22 (2005) to 1:02:59 (2009).\n\nFenty earned a B.A. in English and Economics at Oberlin College and a J.D. from the Howard University School of Law. He is a member of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity.\n\nIn 1997, Fenty and lawyer Michelle Cross eloped. Michelle Cross Fenty works for the Inter-American Development Bank. They have three children: twins Matthew and Andrew (b. 2000) and Aerin Alexandra (b. 2008).\n\nFenty was an intern for Senator Howard Metzenbaum (D-OH), Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC), and Representative Joseph P. Kennedy II (D-MA) before becoming involved in local politics. In addition to serving as an aide to Councilmember Kevin P. Chavous, he was elected as an Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner in ANC 4C and was president of the 16th Street Neighborhood Civic Association.\n\nIn 2000, Fenty won a seat on the D.C. Council. Fenty ran against long-time Ward 4 Councilmember Charlene Drew Jarvis. Jarvis was well-known and a heavy favorite, but Fenty campaigned hard. He pursued an aggressive door-to-door strategy that put up countless green yard signs. It worked; Fenty was elected to the Council seat by a 57–43 percent margin. Unopposed in both the primary and general elections in 2004, Fenty was reelected for a second term.\n\nAs a Council member, Fenty worked on constituent services. He opposed public funding for a new baseball stadium. He proposed funding a $1 billion capital improvement program for public schools, which the Council subsequently passed in an altered form. He is a member of the Mayors Against Illegal Guns Coalition, an organization formed in 2006 and co-chaired by New York City mayor Michael Bloomberg and Boston mayor Thomas Menino.\n\nWhile major, Fenty used three BlackBerry devices. One BlackBerry directly connects him to Police Chief Cathy Lanier while the latter two are for business and personal matters.\n\nFenty formally announced his campaign for D.C. Mayor on June 1, 2005. In the fall of 2005, then-mayor Anthony A. Williams made the widely anticipated announcement that he would not seek re-election, and then-Council Chair Linda Cropp announced she would be a candidate for Mayor. Other candidates in the field included businesswoman Marie Johns, then-Councilmember Vincent Orange, and lobbyist Michael A. Brown (who dropped out of the race in September 2006).\n\nFenty ran on a platform of bringing a more energetic and hands-on approach to city government. Cropp trumpeted her 25 years of experience in city government and her desire to continue the progress made by Anthony Williams, who endorsed her candidacy. The race was widely viewed as neck-and-neck through the spring of 2006. Both candidates raised significant and nearly equal amounts of money – roughly $1.75 million through June 10, 2006 – and neither gained any significant advantages from the numerous candidate debates and forums.\n\nBy July 2006 public and private polling gave Fenty a roughly 10-point advantage. Political observers have debated whether it was Fenty's unprecedented door-to-door campaign (he and his campaign visited virtually every block in the city), Cropp's lack of engagement in the campaign, or the electorate's desire for a new direction after eight years of Anthony Williams. Cropp's campaign began a series of negative attacks during the last month of the campaign. In direct mail and television advertisements, Cropp painted Fenty as unfit for the job and a careless lawyer who had been admonished by the D.C. Bar; in 2005, he received an informal admonition from the Bar for his role in a probate case in 1999. The attacks, however, backfired; the reaction, coupled with the endorsement of the \"Washington Post\", extended Fenty's lead in the campaign's final weeks.\n\nOn September 12, 2006, Fenty won all 142 city precincts in the Democratic Primary. This had never happened before in District of Columbia history—and defeated Linda Cropp by a 57–31 percent margin.\n\nFenty received 89% of the vote in the general election. He became the District's sixth elected mayor since the establishment of home rule.\n\nFenty spent a lot of attention on education reform. On the first day of his term, in an unprecedented and controversial move, Fenty introduced legislation to restructure the school system to place full responsibility for schools under his purview. Across the city, District residents had been demanding that the schools be \"fixed\". Schools in the District had been troubled for years with student test performance scores and graduation rates among the lowest in the nation. In 1996, a Control Board appointed by Congress had taken over control of the public school system, declaring that the schools were in a \"state of emergency\". Mayor Fenty viewed this re-structuring as the solution.\n\nIn April, 2007, the D.C. Council approved Fenty's school takeover plan, and in May 2007, legislation needed to approve the change was passed by Congress and signed by President Bush. Under the new structure, the existing superintendent was replaced by a school chief, or chancellor, who was selected by the mayor reported directly to him. This power shift also allowed him to make swift changes in the system’s central office, alter teacher qualification requirements, and implement a school consolidation process. His selection of Michelle Rhee to manage District schools surprised many people. In choosing Rhee, he stepped outside of the local landscape to consult with national education experts including New York City School Chancellor Joel Klein. \n\nThe move to restructure the school's reporting system and the addition of a school chancellor as a direct report have been credited with putting the school system on the path to long-awaited improvements. To ensure that maximum resources go directly to classrooms, the Mayor and Chancellor closed 23 underenrolled schools and significantly reduced the school system's central administrative staff. \nStudent achievement at the secondary level rose 14 points in reading and 17 points in math since 2007, gains that are unprecedented in DC history and unparalleled nationwide. Student SAT scores rose 27 points in 2010. Graduation rates have risen each year since 2007, and 72 percent of District students took the Practice Scholastic Aptitude Test, a.k.a. the PSAT, which functions as a practice test for students entering college. His administration has also taken on a major, five-year maintenance and construction effort to dramatically improve school buildings by 2014. The Mayor and Chancellor successfully negotiated a collective bargaining agreement with the Washington Teachers Union. The contract has become a national model for other jurisdictions, especially because it establishes a system of performance-based teacher compensation. \n\nWhile focusing on improving schools, the Fenty Administration changed District agencies, ensuring more efficient and effective service delivery throughout city government. Fenty's choice for police chief, Cathy Lanier, also made national headlines. Under Fenty, Lanier has added police officers to the streets and expanded community policing initiatives, for example, \"beefing up\" the policy of accepting anonymous text message tips from local residents to cut down on potential retaliation. By local news accounts, there is evidence of success. The homicide rate in the District dropped 25% in 2009. The homicide closure rate rose to 70%. In his \"State of the District\" speech, the Mayor reported that homicides were at their \"lowest level since 1964\" and that \"both violent crimes and property crimes\" had experienced a double-digit decline.\n\nFenty has championed development efforts across the city. Across the District, several schools, libraries, parks and recreation centers have been renovated to offer state-of-the-art facilities for residents, youth and families. One example is the sheer number of improvements in recreational play spaces for children. Under Fenty, 16 neighborhood and school playgrounds were opened and 9 play courts and fields were completed. Under his leadership, the District's largest shopping center, the DC USA Shopping Center, was opened. New developments, such as the Camp Simms retail development, have infused new life into the neighborhood with a retail grocery store and a sit-down restaurant east of the Anacostia River. Renovation of affordable housing units has helped to provide affordable housing during tough economic times. The Fenty Administration also expanded health care coverage for the uninsured, and established thousands of units of affordable housing, while creating the \"Housing First\" program to provide permanent supportive housing for the city’s homeless neighbors. The administration has made tremendous strides in reducing the backlog of Child Protective Services (CPS) investigations by improving the retention of social workers, increasing recruitment of social workers to fill vacancies, and building a quality leadership team with a depth of experience. Additionally, the Fenty Administration has improved the delivery of emergency medical services. It also finalized the sale of Greater Southeast Community Hospital (now United Medical Center) in a public-private partnership that kept the facility open for patients east of the Anacostia River.\n\nIn December 2009, Fenty made history by signing the Religious Freedom and Civil Marriage Equality Act of 2009, to legalize same-sex marriage in the District of Columbia. During the signing, Mayor Fenty and other attending city officials expressed their support of the gay rights movement by expressing that \"they want the District to provide a road map for gay rights activists as the debate over same-sex marriage...moves across the nation...\"\n\nMayor Fenty and his administration came under attack from political opponents. Council Chair Gray complained that Fenty did not share with the city council tickets donated by a local sports arena. Chair Gray demanded that Fenty hand the tickets over to him so Gray could have control of the tickets. \n\nThe city council also charged that Fenty circumvented the D.C Council in making contracts for park improvements. Rather than treat them as city contracts, the contracts were made with the D.C. Housing Agency.\n\nFenty officially launched his reelection bid on April 10, 2010, at his campaign headquarters, located at 5929 Georgia Avenue, NW, in Washington, DC’s Brightwood neighborhood. The Fenty campaign’s headquarters were located on the site of the old Curtis Chevrolet dealership within Ward 4, the ward in which Fenty began his political career as an Advisory Neighborhood Commissioner in ANC 4C. \n\nFenty faced ten candidates in the District’s September 14, 2010, Democratic primary. On July 31, 2009 (13½ months before the 2010 primary), Fenty's 2010 mayoral campaign passed the 2006 primary fundraising total of $2.4 million.\n\nOn August 1, 2010, the editorial board of \"The Washington Post\" officially endorsed Fenty. \"Washington City Paper\" followed on September 9.\n\nOne primary candidate in particular, Sulaimon Brown devoted his efforts to attacking Fenty rather than establishing his own positive campaign. After the election, Brown was given a $110,000 per year job in the D.C. Department of Health Care Finance of the new administration. However, Brown was fired because of questions about his past. In March 2011, Congress announced an investigation into the hiring of Brown.\n\nA \"Washington Post\" poll released on Aug. 29 found Gray with a 17-point lead among likely voters. A Clarus poll conducted September 7 gave Gray a 7-point lead among likely voter, while a Public Policy Polling survey sponsored by WAMU-FM radio and \"Washington City Paper\" showed an 11 percent lead for Gray.\n\nFenty lost the Democratic primary election to Vincent C. Gray. Gray received 53 percent of the vote to Fenty's 46 percent. Following the reporting of the results, Fenty called it highly unlikely he will run for public office again. \nWhile Fenty received the most write-in votes for mayor in the Republican primary election, Fenty had previously said he would not accept the Republican nomination.\n\nFenty signed with Greater Talent Network, a major speakers bureau, in January 2011. The same month, Fenty became an outside adviser and counsel to Heffler, Radetich & Saitta, an accounting and consulting firm based in Philadelphia. Also in January 2011, it was announced that Fenty would become a distinguished visiting professor of politics, a featured lecturer and a career adviser in the Department of African American Studies at Oberlin College. In February 2011, Fenty became an outside adviser to Rosetta Stone, which produces foreign language software. In March 2011, Fenty became a strategic adviser for the state and local government practice of Capgemini Government Solutions LLC, an information technology consulting firm. In May 2011, Fenty became a member of the advisory board of EverFi Inc., an online education and certification firm. In July 2011, Fenty joined the law firm Klores Perry Mitchell P.C. as special counsel.\n\nOn the Morning Joe Program broadcast on March 8, 2011, Adrian Fenty backed Wisconsin Republican Governor Scott Walker's union busting bill and said that the Democratic State Senators should be held accountable.\n\n2000 Council of the District of Columbia, Ward 4, Democratic Primary Election\n2000 Council of the District of Columbia, Ward 4, General Election\n2004 Council of the District of Columbia, Ward 4, Democratic Primary Election\n2004 Council of the District of Columbia, Ward 4, General Election\n2006 Mayor of the District of Columbia, Democratic Primary Election\n2006 Mayor of the District of Columbia, General Election\n\n", "id": "302775", "title": "Adrian Fenty"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302777", "text": "Bernadette\n\nBernadette is a feminine given name. It is the female version of the masculine name Bernard. Celebrities with the name \"Bernadette\" include the actress Bernadette Peters.\n\n\n\n", "id": "302777", "title": "Bernadette"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302778", "text": "Hwang Hui\n\nHwang Hui (, Hanja:黃喜, 1363 - 1452) was a Korean Goryeo dynasty and Joseon Dynasty scholar and politician. He was the Prime Minister of Joseon Dynasty from 1431 to 1449.\n\nHe was the adopted son of politician Hwang Gun-seo (황군서, 黃君瑞), nickname was BangCheon (방촌, 厖村).\n\n\n", "id": "302778", "title": "Hwang Hui"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302779", "text": "Sulaimon Brown\n\nSulaimon Maurice Brown (born July 31, 1970 in Charleston, SC) is an accountant. He was a candidate for mayor of the District of Columbia in 2010. During the campaign, he actively supported another candidate, Vincent Gray. After Gray became mayor, Brown's criminal record became public. He is being investigated by the United States Attorney. Brown is also being investigated by committees of the DC City Council and of Congress.\nBrown's father, Melvin Brown, was an Army Ranger, and Brown's mother was a nurse at Howard University Hospital.\nBrown earned a Bachelor of Business Administration - Accounting from the University of the District of Columbia. Brown worked as a University of the District of Columbia police officer until 2005. Brown then worked at various accounting firms. In 1988, Brown was tried and acquitted by a jury on an attempted murder charge in Chicago. Brown was also accused of assault in Essex County, New Jersey, but a grand jury refused to indict Brown. The \"Washington City Paper\" reported that DC court records show \"gun charges against Brown were dropped in 1991 in exchange for Brown going to a diversion program, and a jury found Brown guilty in 1995 for unlawful entry.\" The \"City Paper\" also reported that a restraining order had been issued against Brown in 2007. The press asked Brown if he had a criminal record. Brown replied that he had been arrested once for trespassing at Howard University.\n\nBrown was a volunteer in Adrian Fenty's 2006 campaign for mayor. According to Brown's 2009 website, Brown \"worked behind the scenes campaigning for many elected officials [including] The President of the United States Barack Obama. He has helped in efforts to get White House Legislation passed and most recently trying to get a Supreme Court nominee appointed.\" Brown became a candidate for the 2010 Democratic Party nomination for mayor.\n\nOn June 24, 2010, Brown was running out of money because he had not held a job for 18 months. Brown discussed his financial problems with another candidate for mayor, Vincent Gray. Brown and Gray reached an agreement for Gray to provide cash payments to Brown for the rest of the campaign. They also agreed that if Gray won the election, the city would hire both Brown and his brother. Before the primary election, Brown received $44,000 from the Gray campaign and an additional $750 from Lorraine Green, Chairwoman of Gray's campaign. Howard Brooks carried the cash between Gray's campaign and Brown.\n\nBecause Brown was a declared candidate, he participated with Mayor Fenty in a number of candidate debates. At the August 2010 forum in Ward 8, Brown questioned whether Fenty loved his parents. According to the \"Washington Post\", \"During the election, Brown, 40, drew attention at debates by urging voters to cast ballots for Gray and criticizing incumbent Adrian M. Fenty.\" Brown received 209 votes in the primary. Gray defeated Fenty in the September 14, 2010 primary, and Gray won the general election in November 2010. Gray became Mayor in January 2011.\n\nThe Gray Transition Team hired the Capitol Inquiry firm to check Brown's background. Capitol Inquiry discovered Brown's past legal proceedings in Chicago and New Jersey, and included them in a confidential report.\n\nIn January 2011, Brown was hired to a $110,000-a-year job in the DC Office of Health Care Finance. Gray claimed that Brown was hired by Wayne Turnage, the director of that office. When the \"Washington City Paper\" raised questions about the hiring of Brown, he was quickly fired. DC police escorted Brown out of his new office. Mayor Gray called a press conference the same day, and stated:\nHe’s qualified to do the work, Mark. What he did on the campaign has no relation to this. What he did on the campaign is what he decided to do. I didn't ask him to do that nor did I encourage him to do that.Turnage said that he fired Brown because they could not get along and not because of what was printed about his background. Brown sat in the back of the press conference as an uninvited guest, and spoke to reporters at the end of the conference. When the press asked Brown if Gray had promised him a job, Brown refused to answer. Brown blamed City Councilman David Catania for his being fired. Brown said that Catania had threatened to delay the confirmation of Turnage until Brown was fired. Catania denied this.\n\nBrown was placed on paid administrative leave for 15 days.\n\nIn March 2011, Congress announced an investigation into the hiring of Brown.\n\nIn April and May 2011, the DC City Council issued a subpeona to get Brown to testify. Brown hid from the people trying to give him the subpeona and went to court to fight having to testify. On May 31, 2011, the D.C. Superior Court order Brown to testify before the D.C. Council committee that was investigating this matter. On June 6, 2011, Brown testified under oath that Gray had paid him cash to keep in as a candidate in the primary race and had promised him a job. Brown claimed that Gray himself had ordered one of the payoffs. The City Council probe showed that Green, Gray's chief of staff Gerri Mason Hall and Gray's personnel director Judy Banks gave Gray's political allies city jobs. They did it in a way that did not pay attention to qualifications or laws.\n\nBrown was required to report the money that he got as campaign contributions. On June 5, Brown gave the press copies of money orders payable to \"Sulaimon Brown for Mayor\" from relatives of Howard Brooks, including Brook's son (Peyton Brooks), the son's girlfriend, and a cousin of Brook's wife. The last two denied ever making the contributions. Peyton Brooks was also hired as a $110,000-a-year special assistant in the Office of the Deputy Mayor for Planning and Economic Development. Peyton Brooks was one of several children of Gray's campaign workers to be fired after the press printed stories about the jobs. Brown said that he received additional money orders from Howard Brooks, but that those did not have names on them.\n\nThe United States Attorney's Office is also investigating. Brown said that the Federal Bureau of Investigation asked Brown about the payments from Brooks, Green and Gray.\n\n", "id": "302779", "title": "Sulaimon Brown"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302786", "text": "2011 Norway attacks\n\nThe 2011 Norway attacks were two attacks in Norway on 22 July 2011. The first attack was a car bombing near government buildings in Oslo. The second attack was a mass shooting at a summer youth camp on an island northwest of Oslo. Of the total 77 deaths, 55 were teenagers, and another 96 people were injured. The car bomb also shattered many windows of buildings in the government quarter of downtown Oslo.\n\nThe bomb explosion was near the office of Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg at 15:26. It killed eight people and injured several others. The second attack was about 90 minutes later, at a youth camp organized by the youth group (AUF) of the Norwegian Labour Party (AP) at the island of Utøya in Tyrifjorden, Buskerud. A gunman disguised as a policeman opened fire at the campers, and killed 69 people.\n\nThe police arrested several suspects, but many were released. Anders Behring Breivik, a 32-year-old Norwegian Protestant man, committed both attacks. He was later charged with both attacks.\nRecords show he had planned the attacks for years, as an act of anti-immigration ideology and against multi-culturalism.\n\nThe European Union, NATO and countries around the world have expressed their support for Norway and condemned the attacks.\n\nOn 22 July 2011 at 15:26 (CEST) a powerful explosion went off near the offices of the Prime Minister of Norway (\"H-blokka\") and several other governmental buildings, such as the Ministry of Petroleum and Energy (\"R4\") and Ministry of Finance. \"(See map)\"\n\nThe nearby street was filled with glass and debris following the explosion. The wreckage of a car was sighted near one of the affected buildings. A giant cloud of white smoke was seen as a fire burned at the Ministry of Petroleum. The blast was heard at least seven kilometres away.\n\nFollowing the explosion, police cleared the area and searched for more explosive devices. The police asked people to leave central Oslo.\n\nEight people are known to have been killed in the explosion, with fifteen injured, eleven seriously. A doctor at the Oslo University Hospital said the hospital staff were treating head, chest and abdominal injuries.\n\nPrime Minister Jens Stoltenberg was not hurt in the blast. Norway’s finance minister, Sigbjørn Johnsen, was on holiday in Denmark at the time.\n\nBecause July is the main holiday time in Norway, and that attacks took place during the weekend, there were not as many people in the area as usual, which may saved many lives.\n\nAll roads into Oslo's downtown area were closed as police moved people from the area and warned Oslo residents to stay away from the city center. They were also told to limit their usage of mobile phones due to concerns of another possible terrorist attack. Public transport into and out of the city was stopped. The police checked cars on the road to Oslo airport, which remained open as the police conducted searches in cars at the site.\n\nThe Gardermoen railway line between Lillestrøm and Oslo airport was shut down after a suspicious package was found close to the tracks. The same happened at the offices of TV 2, which were evacuated after a suspicious package was found outside the building.\n\nAbout 90 minutes after the Oslo explosion, a gunman in police uniform, believed to be Anders Behring Breivik, got on a ferry about 40 kilometres (25 miles) northwest of Oslo. The ferry went to the island of Utøya in lake Tyrifjorden. The island was the site of the Labour Party's annual Workers' Youth League (AUF) youth summer camp. Once on the island, the gunman began to shoot the mainly adolescent campers, before finally being captured.\n\nThe shooter was dressed as a police officer, and said he had come over for a routine check following the bombing event in Oslo. He signalled and asked people to gather around him before firing his weapons, killing and injuring many people. He first shot people on the island and later started shooting at people who were trying to escape by swimming across the lake. The police reported that most of the casualties were youths of about 15 and 16 years old. People on the island were reported to have hidden in lavatories or undergrowth, communicating by text message to avoid giving their positions away to the gunman.\n\nThe shooting supposedly lasted for 90 minutes. The police were informed about the shooting at 17:27, and at 18:27 the gunman had been arrested. When the police arrived at the scene, they were confronted with a scene of survivors begging the officers to throw away their weapons. They were afraid that the men in uniforms would again open fire on them.\n\nAt about 03:50 (CEST) on 23 July 2011, Norway's National Police Commissioner Øystein Mæland thought the number of deaths at Utøya was \"at least 80\" with the count expected to increase. The number of dead is now known to be 69.\n\nThe attacker is Anders Behring Breivik. He was arrested on Utøya for the shootings and also linked to the Oslo bombings. He has been charged and convicted of carrying out both attacks. He is in prison.\n\nThe attorney Geir Lippestad elected to act on behalf of Breivik's defence, telling the Dagbladet newspaper on Saturday that Breivik had requested him personally. Lippestad said, \"I thought carefully about it. Everyone is entitled to a lawyer, even in a case like this, and I decided to accept.\" Breivik has said that he is responsible for both the bomb and the shooting during police questioning but said he was not guilty. Lippestad also was the attorney for the convicted neo-Nazi murderer Ole Nicolai Kvisler. Kvisler was sentenced in 2002 for the racially motivated murder of Benjamin Hermansen.\n\nActing national police chief Sveinung Sponheim said that the suspected gunman's Internet postings \"suggest that he has some political traits directed toward the right, and anti-Muslim views, but whether that was a motivation for the actual act remains to be seen\". Police have described Breivik as being a right-wing extremist. Breivik described himself as a conservative nationalist. He has been described as a Christian fundamentalist by news sources. He is reported to have written many posts on the website \"document.no\", described by \"Aftenposten\" as \"Islam-critical and Israel-friendly\". He went to meetings of \"Documents venner\" (Friends of Document), linked with the website. He is was also once a member of the right-wing Progress Party (FrP) and its youth wing FpU. FpU leader Ove Vanebo said Breivik was active early in the 2000s, but he left the party as his viewpoints became more extreme.\n\nMedia reports say that Breivik posted comments on the internet saying he is an admirer of Winston Churchill and Max Manus, and also of Dutch politician Geert Wilders. Breivik said Wilders' Party for Freedom, is \"the only true party for conservatives\". Breivik has said he is \"pro-gay and pro-Israel\". On Twitter he paraphrased utilitarian philosopher John Stuart Mill: \"One person with a belief is equal to the force of 100,000 who have only interests.\" The Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation (NRK) said that Breivik published a 1516-page manifesto, on his anti-multiculturalist and right-wing militant ideologies, on the day of the attacks.\n\nSeveral witnesses at the youth camp do not believe there was only one shooter. The police have received descriptions of a second gunman, and are currently checking this information. Due to the uncertainty surrounding these witness descriptions and the chaotic nature of the events the police have, as a matter of precaution, yet to make an official comment on the matter. Acting Police Chief Sveinung Sponheim has said that \"It's very difficult at this point to say whether he was acting alone or whether he was acting as part of a larger network\".\n\nAt a press conference on the morning after the attacks, prime minister Jens Stoltenberg called the attack a \"national tragedy\" and the worst atrocity since World War II. Stoltenberg said that the attack would not hurt the Norwegian democracy, and said the proper answer to the violence was \"more democracy, more openness, but not naivety\".\n\nEskil Pedersen of the Workers' Youth League vowed to \"return to Utøya\" and urged Norway to continue its tradition of openness and tolerance.\n\nKing Harald sent his condolences to the victims and their families, and urged unity.\n\nThe European Union, NATO, the United Nations Security Council, governments and leaders from around the world expressed their condemnation of the attack, condolences, and solidarity with Norway.\n\n", "id": "302786", "title": "2011 Norway attacks"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302788", "text": "Harald Cerny\n\nHarald Cerny (born 13 September 1973) is a former Austrian football midfielder. He played mostly for TSV 1860 München.\n\nHe started his career with ASV Hinterbrühl and FC Admira/Wacker where he played in the different youth teams. At the age of 19 he went to Bayern München where he started the professional career. The first two years he played for the second squad but in the 1992/93 he played in the first team giving his debut versus Eintracht Frankfurt. 1993 he went back to Austria playing with FC Admira/Wacker . After Wacker Innsbruck in the 1994/95 season he went back to Munich but played for Bayerns rival TSV 1860 München. With 268 matches, 238 of them in the Bundesliga, for 1860 he is the record holder of the club. Due to injuries, he ended his career in 2007.\n\nCerny made his debut for Austria in March 1993 against Greece. He played 47 matches and scored four goals.His last international was an April 2004 against Luxembourg. He was also in the squad for the 1998 FIFA World Cup in France. There he played two matches versus Cameroon and Chile.\n\n!Total||47||4\n", "id": "302788", "title": "Harald Cerny"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302789", "text": "Franz Wohlfahrt\n\nFranz Bernhard Wohlfahrt (born 1 July 1964 in Sankt Veit an der Glan, Austria) is a former Austrian goalkeeper.\n\nHe started with the local club SV St.Veit and turned professional with F.K. Austria Wien. He came together with his older brother Mario, who soon went back to St. Veit. Franz Wohlfahrt played then 20 years or 496 matches for this club divided in two sections. With Austria Wien he became 6 times Austrian Champion and four times Austrian cup winner. He became widely known during a UEFA Cup match versus Ajax Amsterdam when he was injured by a bar thrown by an Ajax supporter. Following this Ajax was banned for one year in European football. From 1996 till 2000 he played for the German team VfB Stuttgart, with the club he played in the 1997/98 UEFA Cup final versus Chelsea (0:1). 2000 he went back to Austria Wien. 2002 he ended his career but in 2007 he started again playing for ASK Hirm, whose goalkeeper was injured..\n\nIn 1983 he played in the 1983 FIFA World Youth Championship. His first match in the senior team was in August 1987 in a match versus Switzerland. His last match was a qualification match for the 2002 FIFA World Cup versus Turkey. He was also a goalkeeper in the 1998 FIFA World Cup squad. In 1999 he was goalkeeper during the 0:9 defeat versus Spain in Valencia. All in all he played 59 matches for Austria.\n\n", "id": "302789", "title": "Franz Wohlfahrt"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302793", "text": "Opel Movano\n\nThe Opel Movano is a series of light trucks and minibuses produced by Opel in two generations since 1998. It is similar to the Renault Master and the Nissan Interstar/NV400. In the UK it's sold as the Vauxhall Movano. \n", "id": "302793", "title": "Opel Movano"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302794", "text": "Exchange of gases\n\nExchange of gases or gas exchange is carried out by organisms, where different gases move in different directions. Animals, microorganisms and plants breathe out carbon dioxide and breathe in oxygen. To balance the composition of air, plants use carbon dioxide to carry out photosynthesis, so oxygen is made. Plants only carry this out during the day, when there is sunlight. Plants respire all day and night.\n\nIn humans, gas exchange happens in the alveolus (alveoli for plural). These are in the lungs. Oxygen diffuses into the bloodstream, from the air. Oxygen is used in aerobic respiration. Carbon dioxide diffuses out of the bloodstream, into the air. Carbon dioxide is a waste product made by respiration.\n", "id": "302794", "title": "Exchange of gases"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302801", "text": "Pentene\n\nPentene is the name of alkenes with the formula CH. They are hydrocarbons. In total, there are five different pentenes. Pentens occur in cracking processes and in natural gas. Pentenes are used for polymerization, and for the synthesis of isoprene, amyl alcohols and Alkylphenols. Amyl alcohols are used as stabilizers in the production of Chloroform and Dichloromethane to stop phosgene from being made.\n", "id": "302801", "title": "Pentene"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302802", "text": "Paul Strzelecki\n\nPaul Edmund de Strzelecki (20 July 1797 — October 1873) was a Polish man who taught himself geology. He became famous for his explorations in Australia.\n\nHe was born in Gluszyna, near Poznan, Western Poland in 1797 and later served briefly with the Prussian army. He tried unsuccessfully to marry a young girl, and then was accused of stealing money from his employer. He moved to London and gave himself the title of Count Strzelecki. In 1834 he went to North America and spent time visiting mineral areas and exploring for minerals. He is said to be the first person to find copper in Canada. In 1836 he travelled along the west coast from Chile to California.\n\nIn 1839 he visited the Hawaii, Tahiti, New Zealand and finally landed in Sydney, Australia. He wanted to make a geological map, and explored large parts of New South Wales and Victoria, including the Australian Alps. He climbed Australia's highest mountain, and named it Mount Kosciuszko, after the Polish leader, Tadeusz Kosciuszko.\n\nHe spent several years in Tasmania before going back to Sydney. He went back to London in 1843. He wrote a book on his discoveries in Australia called \"Physical Description of New South Wales and Van Diemen's Land\". He was given the Founder's Medal by the Royal Geographical Society.\n\nIn 1847—8 he was put in charge of the giving out money in Ireland during the Great Famine for the British Relief Association. He established standards for giving out assistance that are still being used.\n\nHe was made a Fellow of the Royal Geographic Society and the Royal Society. He was awarded the K.C.M.G. in 1869. He died from cancer in 1873. He left instructions that after his death his papers were to be burnt and his body buried in an unmarked grave.\n\nA road from Lyndhurst to Innamincka was named the Strzelecki Track after Paul Strzelecki. It was used until the 1930's to move cattle to Adelaide, and now is the main road to Moomba, a huge natural gas field which supplies Adelaide and Sydney. The Strzelecki Ranges in Victoria are also named after him. A large national park on Flinders Island, the Strzelecki National Park, was named after Strzelecki who climbed the mountains there in 1842.\n", "id": "302802", "title": "Paul Strzelecki"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302803", "text": "Stress (mechanics)\n\nStress is the force per unit area on a body that tends to cause it to change shape.\n\nStress is a measure of the internal forces in a body between its particles. These internal forces are a reaction to the external forces applied on the body that cause it to separate, compress or slide. External forces are either surface forces or body forces. Stress is the average force per unit area that a particle of a body exerts on an adjacent particle, across an imaginary surface that separates them.\n\nThe formula for uniaxial normal stress is:\n\nwhere σ is the stress, F is the force and A is the surface area.\n\nIn SI units, force is measured in newtons and area in square metres. This means stress is newtons per square meter, or N/m. However, stress has its own SI unit, called the pascal. 1 pascal (symbol Pa) is equal to 1 N/m. In Imperial units, stress is measured in pound-force per square inch, which is often shortened to \"psi\". The dimension of stress is the same as that of pressure.\n\nIn continuum mechanics, the loaded deformable body behaves as a continuum. So, these internal forces are distributed continually within the volume of the material body. (This means that the stress distribution in the body is expressed as a piecewise continuous function of space and time.) The forces cause deformation of the body's shape. The deformation can lead to a permanent shape change or structural failure if the material is not strong enough.\n\nSome models of continuum mechanics treat force as something that can change. Other models look at the deformation of matter and solid bodies, because the characteristics of matter and solids are three dimensional. Each approach can give different results. Classical models of continuum mechanics assume an average force and do not properly include \"geometrical factors\". (The geometry of the body can be important to how stress is shared out and how energy builds up during the application of the external force.) \n\nIn some situations, the stress within an object can be described by a single number, or by a single vector (a number and a direction). Three such simple stress situations are the \"uniaxial normal stress\", the \"simple shear stress\", and the \"isotropic normal stress\".\n\nTensile stress (or tension) is the stress state leading to expansion; that is, the length of a material tends to increase in the tensile direction. The volume of the material stays constant. When equal and opposite forces are applied on a body, then the stress due to this force is called tensile stress.\n\nTherefore in a uniaxial material the length increases in the tensile stress direction and the other two directions will decrease in size. In the uniaxial manner of tension, tensile stress is induced by pulling forces. Tensile stress is the opposite of compressive stress.\n\nStructural members in direct tension are ropes, soil anchors and nails, bolts, etc. Beams subjected to bending moments may include tensile stress as well as compressive stress and/or shear stress.\n\nTensile stress may be increased until the reach of tensile strength, namely the \"limit state\" of stress.\n\nAll real objects occupy three-dimensional space. However, if two dimensions are very large or very small compared to the others, the object may be modelled as one-dimensional. This simplifies the mathematical modelling of the object. One-dimensional objects include a piece of wire loaded at the ends and viewed from the side, and a metal sheet loaded on the face and viewed up close and through the cross section.\n\n\n\n", "id": "302803", "title": "Stress (mechanics)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302808", "text": "Pericyclic reaction\n\nIn organic chemistry, a pericyclic reaction is a type of chemical reaction between organic compounds. In the case of pericyclic reactions, the transition state of the molecule is a ring (has a cyclic geometry), and the reaction goes forward in a concerted way. Pericyclic reactions are usually rearrangement reactions. The most important groups of pericyclic reactions are:\n\n\nIn general, pericyclic reactions are equilibrium processes. However, it is possible to push the reaction in one direction if the product is at a significantly lower energy level. This is applying Le Chatelier's principle to a reaction involving a single molecule.\n\nMany pericyclic reactions have similar stepwise radical processes connected with them. Chemists disagree whether some reactions are pericyclic reactions. For example, it is not definitively known whether the [2+2] cycloaddition mechanism is concerted (or may depend on the reactive system). Many pericyclic reactions have similar reactions that are metal-catalyzed. But these metal-catalyzed reactions are also not really pericyclic. The metal catalysts stabilize the reaction intermediates. So the reaction is not concerted, but rather metal-stabilized.\n\nA large photoinduced hydrogen sigmatropic shift was utilized in a corrin synthesis performed by Albert Eschenmoser containing a 16π system. \n\nDue to the principle of microscopic reversibility, there is a parallel set of \"retro\" pericyclic reactions, which perform the reverse reaction.\n\nPericyclic reactions also happen in several biological processes:\n\n\n", "id": "302808", "title": "Pericyclic reaction"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302812", "text": "2011–12 Manchester United F.C. season\n\nThe 2011–12 season is Manchester United's 20th season in the Premier League.\n\nManchester United signed a £40 million four-year deal with DHL.\n\nOn November, Sir Alex Ferguson celebrated 25 years in charge of the club.\n\nManchester United started their season with a tour in the United States. United finishing the tour with a game against Barcelona in Washington on 30 July.\n\nManchester United will face Benfica, Basel and Otelul Galati in Group C.\n\nManchester United were drawn against Crystal Palace in the quarter-finals of the League Cup.\n", "id": "302812", "title": "2011–12 Manchester United F.C. season"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302814", "text": "The Annoying Orange\n\nThe Annoying Orange is a comedy web series created by Dane Boedigheimer. The main character is an orange who annoys other fruits. The episodes are uploaded to the YouTube channel \"realannoyingorange\" weekly, with now over 200 videos. , The channel had almost 3 million subcribers. At that time, it was 43rd in terms of how many people are subscribed to it.\n\nOrange is the main character. He is described as really annoying, but sometimes funny. He warns others about a knife and other items ready to kill them.\n\nPear is described as a normal/bad/lying/negative/abusive character. He was Orange (Annoying Orange)'s best friend and normally tells Orange to stop being annoying and shut up, but it is discovered in the episode \"Wishful Thinking\" that Pear would not be friends without Grapefruit. Pear is in Grapefruit's gang and was making fun of Orange.\n\nMidget Apple is a small apple in the series. He does not like being called \"Midget Apple\", prefering the term \"Little Apple\".\n\nApple is Orange's former best friend and current rival (bully). Apple is in Grapefruit's bullying gang.\n\nIn 2012, Cartoon Network made a 2012-2014 high fructose adventures TV show based on the YouTube series.\n\n", "id": "302814", "title": "The Annoying Orange"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302815", "text": "Cycloaddition\n\nA cycloaddition is a chemical reaction between reactants with double bonds that get replaced by a ring structure. It is a pericyclic chemical reaction where \"two or more unsaturated molecules (or parts of the same molecule) combine with the formation of a cyclic adduct in which there is a net reduction of the bond multiplicity.\" It is a cyclization reaction: it makes new ring of atoms.\n\nCycloadditions are named by the basic size of the molecules that are being brought together. This would make the Diels–Alder reaction a [4 + 2]cycloaddition, and the 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition a [3 + 2]cycloaddition. This type of reaction is a non-polar addition reaction.\n\nHeat can cause the double bonds to form a ring. Thermal cycloadditions usually have (4n + 2) π electrons participating in the starting material, for some whole number \"n\". Because of orbital symmetry, most cycloadditions are suprafacial-suprafacial. Rarely, they are antarafacial-antarafacial. There are a few examples of thermal cycloadditions which have 4n π electrons (for example the [2 + 2] cycloaddition). These proceed in a suprafacial-antarafacial sense. For example, the dimerisation of ketene has a orthogonal set of p orbitals. Those p orbitals allow the reaction to proceed using a crossed transition state.\n\nLight can also cause the double bonds to form a ring. Cycloadditions in which 4n π electrons participate can also occur as a result of photochemical activation. Here, one component makes an electron move from the highest occupied molecular orbital (HOMO) (π bonding) to the lowest unoccupied molecular orbital (LUMO) (π* antibonding). After the electron is promoted to the higher orbital, orbital symmetry allows the reaction to proceed in a suprafacial-suprafacial manner. An example is the DeMayo reaction. Another example is shown below, the photochemical dimerization of cinnamic acid.\n\nNote that not all photochemical (2+2) cyclizations are cycloadditions; some are known to operate by radical mechanisms.\n\nSome cycloadditions instead of π bonds operate through strained cyclopropane rings; as these have significant π character. For example, an analog for the Diels–Alder reaction is the quadricyclane-DMAD reaction: \n\nIn the (i+j+...) cycloaddition notation i and j refer to the number of atoms involved in the cycloaddition. In this notation a Diels-Alder reaction is a (4+2)cycloaddition and a 1,3-dipolar addition such as the first step in ozonolysis is a (3+2)cycloaddition. This notation uses parenthesis. The IUPAC preferred notation however, with [i+j+...] counts electrons and not atoms. It uses square brackets. In this notation, the Diels–Alder reaction and the dipolar reaction both become a [4+2]cycloaddition. The reaction between norbornadiene and an activated alkyne is a [2+2+2]cycloaddition.\n\nThe Diels–Alder reaction is a [4+2]cycloaddition reaction.\n\nThe Huisgen cycloaddition reaction is a [2+3]cycloaddition.\n\nThe Nitrone-olefin cycloaddition is a [3+2]cycloaddition.\n\nCycloadditions often have metal-catalyzed and stepwise radical analogs, however these are not strictly speaking pericyclic reactions. When charged or radical intermediates are involved in a cycloaddition, or when the cycloaddition result is found in a series of reaction steps, they are sometimes called formal cycloadditions to make a difference from true pericyclic cycloadditions. \n\nOne example of a formal [3+3]cycloaddition between a cyclic enone and an enamine catalyzed by \"n\"-butyllithium is a Stork enamine / 1,2-addition cascade reaction:\n", "id": "302815", "title": "Cycloaddition"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302816", "text": "Cheletropic reaction\n\nCheletropic reactions are a type of pericyclic reaction where one atom on one of the reagents gets two new bonds. A pericyclic reaction is one that involves a transition state with a cyclic array of atoms and an associated cyclic array of interacting orbitals. A reorganization of σ and π bonds occurs in this cyclic array.\n\nCheletropic reactions are a subclass of cycloadditions. What sets cheletropic reactions apart is that on one of the reagents, both new bonds are being made to the same atom. A few examples are shown to the right in Figure 1. In the first case, the single atom is the carbon atom in the carbonyl group. That carbon atom ends up in carbon monoxide. The end result is making two new bonds to one atom. The first two examples are known as \"cheletropic extrusions\" because a small stable molecule is given off in the reaction. The driving force for these reactions is often the entropic benefit of releasing a gas (e.g. CO or N).\n\nBecause of the geometry of the molecules involved in cheletropic reactions, they confirm a number of predictions made by theoretical chemists. Cheletropic reactions confirm the conservation of molecular orbital symmetry.\n\nIn the pericyclic transition state, a small molecule donates two electrons to the ring. Two possible geometries can explain the reaction. The small molecule can approach in either a linear or non-linear way. In the linear approach, the electrons in the orbital of the small molecule are pointed directly at the π system of the big molecule. In the non-linear approach, the orbital approaches at a slightly off angle. The π-systems ability to rotate as the small molecule approaches is crucial in forming new bonds. The direction of rotation will be different depending on how many π-electrons are in the system. A diagram of a two-electron fragment approaching a four-electron π-system using frontier molecular orbitals is shown below. The rotation will be disrotatory if the small molecule approaches linearly and conrotatory if the molecule approaches non-linearly. Disrotatory and conrotatory tell how the bonds in the π-system are rotating. Disrotatory means opposite directions while conrotatory means the same direction. This is also shown in the diagram below.\n\nUsing Huckel's Rule, one can tell if the π-system is aromatic or anti-aromatic. If aromatic, linear approaches use disrotatory motion while non-linear approaches use conrotatory motion. The opposite goes with an anti-aromatic system. Linear approaches will have conrotatory motion while non-linear approaches will have disrotatory motion.\n\nWhen sulfur dioxide reacts with butadiene and isoprene, two different products result. The reaction mechanism will control what gets made. A kinetic product and a thermodynamic product are both possible. More of the thermodynamic product gets made than the kinetic product. The kinetic product comes from a Diels–Alder reaction, while a cheletropic reaction makes a more thermodynamically stable product. The cheletropic pathway is used more because it makes to a more stable five-membered ring adduct. The scheme below shows the difference between the two products. The path to the left shows the thermodynamic product, while the path to the right shows the kinetic product. Suarez and Sordo showed this in 1995. They showed this both with experiments and using Gaussian calculations.\n\nOne example of this is the cheletropic reactions of 1,3-dienes with sulfur dioxide. Chemists have carefully looked at the kinetics of this reaction. In 1976, Isaacs and Laila measured the kenetic factors for the addition of sulfur dioxide to butadiene derivatives. Rates of addition were monitored in benzene at 30 °C with an initial twentyfold excess of diene. They used a spectrophotometer to study light at 320 nm to measure the disappearance of SO. The reaction showed \"pseudo first-order kinetics\". The chemists found that electron-withdrawing groups on the diene decreased the rate of reaction. Also, the reaction rate was affected considerably by steric effects of 2-substituents, with more bulky groups increasing the rate of reaction. (In other words, the larger the group of atoms hanging from the second carbon atom, the quicker the reaction ran.) The authors attribute this to the tendency of bulky groups to favor the cisoid conformation of the diene which is essential to the reaction (see table below). In addition, the rates at four temperatures were measured for seven of the dienes. From these measurements, chemists used the Arrhenius equation to calculate the enthalpy of activation (ΔH) and entropy of activation (ΔS) for each reaction. This was one of the first important efforts to study the kenetics of a cheletropic reaction. \n\nMonnat, Vogel, and Sordo, in 2002, measured the kinetics of addition of sulfur dioxide to 1,2-dimethylidenecycloalkanes. They wrote that the reaction of 1,2-dimethylidenecyclohexane with sulfur dioxide can give two different products depending on reaction conditions. The reaction makes the corresponding sultine through a hetero-Diels-Alder reaction under kinetic control (≤ -60 °C), but, under thermodynamic control (≥ -40 °C), the reaction makes the corresponding sulfolene through a cheletropic reaction. The activation enthalpy for the hetero-Diels-Alder reaction is about 2 kcal/mol smaller than that for the corresponding cheletropic reaction. The sulfolene is about 10 kcal/mol more stable than the isometric sultine in CHCl/SO solution.\n\nThe authors were able to experimentally work out a rate law at 261.2 K for the reaction of 1,2-dimethylidenecyclohexane with sulfur dioxide to give the corresponding sulfolene. The reaction was first order in 1,2-dimethylidenecyclohexane but second order in sulfur dioxide (see below). This confirmed a prediction of theoretical chemists based on high-level \"ab initio\" quantum calculations. Using computational methods, the authors proposed a transition structure for the cheletropic reaction of 1,2-dimethylidenecyclohexane with sulfur dioxide (see figure at right). The reaction is second order in sulfur dioxide because another molecule of sulfur dioxide likely binds to the transition state to help stabilize it. Similar results were found in an 1995 study by Suarez, Sordo, and Sordo which used \"ab initio\" calculations to study the kinetic and thermodynamic control of the reaction of sulfur dioxide with 1,3-dienes.\n\nThe effect of the solvent of the cheletropic reaction of 3,4-dimethyl-2,5-dihydrothiophen-1,1-dioxide (shown at right) was kinetically investigated in 14 solvents. The reaction rate constants of the forward and reverse reaction in addition to the equilibrium constants were found to be linearly correlated with the E(30) solvent polarity scale. \n\nReactions were done at 120 °C and were studied by 1H-NMR spectroscopy of the reaction mixture. The forward rate k was found to decrease by a factor of 4.5 going from cyclohexane to methanol. The reverse rate k was found to increase by a factor of 53 going from cyclohexane to methanol, while the equilibrium constant K decreased by a factor of 140. It is suggested that there is a change of the polarity during the activation process as evidenced by relationships between the equilibrium and kinetic data. The authors say that the reaction appears to be influenced by the polarity of the solvent, and this can be shown by the change in the dipole moments when going from reactant to transition state to product. The authors also state that the cheletropic reaction doesn’t seem to be influenced by either solvent acidity or basicity. \n\nThe results of this study lead the authors to expect the following behaviors: \n\n1. The change in the solvent polarity will influence the rate less than the equilibrium.\n\n2. The rate constants will be characterized by opposite effect on the polarity: k will slightly decrease with the increase of E(30), and k will increase under the same conditions.\n\n3. The effect on k will be larger than on k.\n\nOne of the most synthetically important cheletropic reactions is the addition of a singlet carbene to an alkene to make a cyclopropane (see figure at left). A carbene is a neutral molecule containing a divalent carbon with six electrons in its valence shell. Because of this, carbenes are highly reactive electrophiles and generated as reaction intermediates. A singlet carbene contains an empty \"p\" orbital and a roughly \"sp\" hybrid orbital that has two electrons. Singlet carbenes add stereospecifically to alkenes, and alkene stereochemistry is retained in the cyclopropane product. The mechanism for addition of a carbene to an alkene is a concerted [2+1] cycloaddition (see figure). Carbenes derived from chloroform or bromoform can be used to add CX to an alkene to give a dihalocyclopropane, while the Simmons-Smith reagent adds CH.\n\nInteraction of the filled carbene orbital with the alkene π system creates a four-electron system and favors a non-linear approach. It is also favorable to mix the carbene empty \"p\" orbital with the filled alkene π orbital. Favorable mixing occurs through a non-linear approach (see figure 2 at right). However, while theory clearly favors a non-linear approach, there are no obvious experimental implications for a linear vs. non-linear approach.\n", "id": "302816", "title": "Cheletropic reaction"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302818", "text": "Sigmatropic reaction\n\nA sigmatropic reaction in organic chemistry is a pericyclic reaction. A sigmatropic reaction does not use a catalyst and involves a single molecule (an uncatalyzed intramolecular process). It changes one σ-bond into a different σ-bond. The name \"sigmatropic\" is the result of a compounding of the long-established \"sigma\" name for single carbon-carbon bonds and the Greek word \"tropos\", meaning turn. This is a rearrangement reaction which means that the bonds in a molecule shift between atoms without any atoms leaving or new atoms added to the molecule. In a sigmatropic reaction, a substituent moves from one part of a π-bonded system to another part in an intramolecular reaction with simultaneous rearrangement of the π system. True sigmatropic reactions usually do not need a catalyst. Some sigmatropic reactions are catalyzed by a Lewis acid. Sigmatropic reactions often have transition-metal catalysts that form intermediates in analogous reactions. The most well-known of the sigmatropic rearrangements are the [3,3] Cope rearrangement, Claisen rearrangement, Carroll rearrangement and the Fischer indole synthesis. \n\nA special notation is used to describe sigmatropic shifts. Each of the carbon atoms on the backbone of the molecule are assigned a position number. Sigmatropic rearrangements are described by an order term [i,j]. This means the migration of a σ-bond adjacent to one or more π systems to a new position (i-1) and (j-1) atoms removed from the original location of the σ-bond. When the sum of i and j is an even number, this is an indication of the involvement of a neutral, all C atom chain. An odd number suggests that there is a charged C atom or of a heteroatom lone pair replacing a carbon-carbon double bond. Thus, [1,5] and [3,3] shifts become [1,4] and [2,3] shifts with heteroatoms, while preserving symmetry considerations. Hydrogens are omitted in the third example for clarity. \n\nHere is a way to find the order of a given sigmatropic rearrangement. The first step is to give numbers to each atom starting with the atoms of the bond being broken as atom 1. Chemists count the atoms in each direction from the broken bond to the atoms that form the new σ-bond in the product. The numbers that correspond to the atoms forming the new bond are then separated by a comma and placed within brackets. This creates the sigmatropic reaction order descriptor.\n\nChemists also count atoms when naming a sigmatropic shift where a hydrogen atom moves. The carbon chain does not break in a hydrogen atom migration. So, chemists count across all atoms involved in the reaction rather than only across the closest atoms. For example, the following hydrogen atom migration is of order [1,5], attained by counting counterclockwise through the π system, rather than the [1,3] order through the ring CH group that would mistakenly result if counted clockwise.\n\nChemists have studied sigmatropic reactions where the migrating group has a sterocenter. In principle, all sigmatropic shifts can occur with either the same (retention) or the opposite (inversion) geometry of the migrating group. This depends on whether the original bonding lobe of the migrating atom or its other lobe is used to form the new bond.\n\nIn cases of stereochemical retention, the migrating group translates without rotation into the bonding position. In the case of stereochemical inversion the migrating group both rotates and translates to reach its bonded conformation.\n\nThere is another way that a sigmatropic reaction can produce products with different sterochemistry. The migrating group can stay on the original face of the π system after rebonding. Or, it can go to the opposite face of the π system. If the migrating group remains on the same face of the π system, the shift is known as suprafacial. If the migrating group transfers to the opposite face is called an antarafacial shift. Transformations that occur within small- or medium-sized rings cannot make antarafacial shifts. \n\nIn a thermal [1,3] hydride shift, a hydride moves three atoms. The Woodward-Hoffmann rules dictate that it would proceed in an antarafacial shift. Although such a shift is symmetry allowed, the Mobius topology required in the transition state prohibits such a shift. It is geometrically impossible. This is why enols do not isomerize without an acid or base catalyst.\n\nThermal alkyl [1,3] shifts, similar to [1,3] hydride shifts, must proceed antarafacially. The geometry of the transition state is prohibitive. But an alkyl group, due to the nature of its orbitals, can invert its geometry and form a new bond with the back lobe of its sp orbital. This reaction will result a suprafacial shift. These reactions are still not common in open chain systems because of the highly ordered nature of the transition state. So, the reactions work better in cyclic molecules.\n\nPhotochemical [1,3] shifts should be suprafacial shifts; however, most are non-concerted because they proceed through a triplet state (that is, they have a diradical mechanism, to which the Woodward-Hoffmann rules do not apply).\n\nA [1,5] shift involves the shift of 1 substituent (-H, -R or -Ar) down 5 atoms of a π system. Hydrogen has been shown to shift in both cyclic and open chain systems at temperatures at or above 200 ˚C. These reactions are predicted to proceed suprafacially, by a Huckel-topology transition state. \n\nPhotoirradiation would require an antarafacial shift of hydrogen. Although such reactions are rare, there are examples where antarafacial shifts are favored:\nIn contrast to hydrogen [1,5] shifts, there have never been any observed [1,5] alky shifts in an open-chain system. Chemists have determined rate preferences for [1,5] alkyl shifts in cyclic systems: carbonyl and carboxyl> hydride> phenyl and vinyl» alkyl. \n\nAlkyl groups undergo [1,5] shifts very poorly and usually require high temperatures. However, for cyclohexadienes, the temperature for alkyl shifts is not much higher than that for carbonyls, the best migratory group. A study showed that this is because alkyl shifts on cyclohexadienes proceed through a different mechanism. First the ring opens, followed by a [1,7] shift, and then the ring reforms electrocyclically:\n\nThis same mechanistic process is seen below, without the final electrocyclic ring-closing reaction, in the interconversion of lumisterol to vitamin D.\n\n[1,7] sigmatropic shifts are predicted by the Woodward-Hoffmann rules to proceed in an antarafacial fashion, by a Mobius topology transition state. An antarafacial [1,7] shift is observed in the conversion of lumisterol to vitamin D, where following an electrocyclic ring opening to previtamin D, a methyl hydrogen shifts. \n\nBicyclic nonatrienes also undergo [1,7] shifts in a so called walk rearrangement, which is the shift of divalent group, as part of a three-membered ring, in a bicyclic molecule.\n\n[3,3] sigmatropic shifts are well studied sigmatropic rearrangements. The Woodward-Hoffman rules predict that these six electron reactions would proceed suprafacially, using a Huckel topology transition state. \n\nDiscovered in 1912 by Rainer Ludwig Claisen, the Claisen rearrangement is the first recorded example of a [3,3]-sigmatropic rearrangement. This rearrangement is a useful carbon-carbon bond-forming reaction. An example of Claisen rearrangement is the [3,3] rearrangement of an allyl vinyl ether, which upon heating yields a γ,δ-unsaturated carbonyl. The formation of a carbonyl group makes this reaction, unlike other sigmatropic rearrangements, inherently irreversible. \n\nThe ortho-Claisen rearrangement involves the [3,3] shift of an allyl phenyl ether to an intermediate which quickly tautomerizes to an ortho-substituted phenol.\n\nWhen both the ortho positions on the benzene ring are blocked, a second ortho-Claisen rearrangement will occur. This para-Claisen rearrangement ends with the tautomerization to a tri-substituted phenol.\n\nThe Cope rearrangement is an extensively studied organic reaction involving the [3,3] sigmatropic rearrangement of 1,5-dienes. It was developed by Arthur C. Cope. For example 3,4-dimethyl-1,5-hexadiene heated to 300 °C yields 2,6-octadiene.\n\nThe Oxy-Cope rearrangement a hydroxyl group is added at C3 forming an enal or enone after Keto-enol tautomerism of the intermediate enol:\n\nThe Carroll rearrangement is a rearrangement reaction in organic chemistry and involves the transformation of a β-keto allyl ester into a α-allyl-β-ketocarboxylic acid. This organic reaction can be followed by decarboxylation and the final product is a γ,δ-allylketone. The Carroll rearrangement is an adaptation of the Claisen rearrangement and effectively a decarboxylative allylation.\n\nThe Fischer indole synthesis is a chemical reaction that produces the aromatic heterocycle indole from a (substituted) phenylhydrazine and an aldehyde or ketone under acidic conditions. The reaction was discovered in 1883 by Hermann Emil Fischer. \n\nThe choice of acid catalyst is very important. Successful acid catalysts include: Bronsted acids such as HCl, HSO, polyphosphoric acid and p-toluenesulfonic acid. Lewis acids such as boron trifluoride, zinc chloride, iron chloride, and aluminium chloride are also useful catalysts.\n\nSeveral reviews have been published.\n\nSimilar to [3,3] shifts, the Woodward-Hoffman rules predict that [5,5] sigmatropic shifts would proceed suprafacially, Huckel topology transition state. These reactions are rarer than [3,3] sigmatropic shifts, but this is mainly a function of the fact that molecules that can undergo [5,5] shifts are rarer than molecules that can undergo [3,3] shifts.\n\nThe migration of a divalent group, such as O, S, NR or CR, which is part of a three-membered ring in a bicyclic molecule, is commonly referred to as a walk rearrangement. This can be formally characterized according to the Woodward-Hofmann rules as being a (1, n) sigmatropic shift. An example of such a rearrangement is the shift of substituents on tropilidenes (1,3,5-cycloheptatrienes). When heated, the pi-system goes through an electrocyclic ring closing to form bicycle[4,1,0]heptadiene (norcaradiene). Thereafter follows a [1,5] alkyl shift and an electrocyclic ring opening. \n\nProceeding through a [1,5] shift, the walk rearrangement of norcaradienes is expected to proceed suprafacially with a retention of stereochemistry. Experimental observations, however, show that the 1,5-shifts of norcaradienes proceed antarafacially. Theoretical calculations found the [1,5] shift to be a diradical process, but without involving any diradical minima on the potential energy surface.\n\n", "id": "302818", "title": "Sigmatropic reaction"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302819", "text": "Group transfer reaction\n\nA Group transfer reaction is pericyclic reaction where one pi bond is converted to one sigma bond, at the same time that a sigma bond migrates.\n\nThe best known group transfer reaction is the ene reaction.\n", "id": "302819", "title": "Group transfer reaction"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302826", "text": "Mercedes-Benz W201\n\nThe Mercedes-Benz W201 is a automobile produced by Mercedes-Benz. It were introduced in 1982 and were the predecessor for the C-Class, who replaced the W202 in 1993. \n\n\n", "id": "302826", "title": "Mercedes-Benz W201"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302829", "text": "Cadel Evans\n\nCadel Evans (born 14 February 1977 in Katherine, Northern Territory) is an Australian professional bicycle race driver. In 2011, he is the first Australian to win the Tour de France.\n\nCadel Evans was born on 14 February 1977 at the Katherine Hospital, Katherine, Northern Territory, Australia. He is the son of Helen Cocks, a bank manager and Paul Evans, a council foreman. He spent his early childhood in the small aboriginal community of Barunga, 80 km east of Katherine. At the age of seven, he was hit in the head by a horse and spent seven days in an induced coma. In 1986, his parents got divorced and he moved with his mother to Armidale, New South Wales. Later they moved to the state of Victoria. Skateboarding was one of his interests when he was a teenager. His father describes him as a good student, but otherwise just an ordinary kid who would leave his toys around. \"Not in [my] wildest dreams\" would he imagine that his son would become a top world athlete.\n\nEvans attended Newling Public School in Armidale, and Eltham High School in Melbourne.\n", "id": "302829", "title": "Cadel Evans"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302836", "text": "Grand Army Plaza (Manhattan)\n\nGrand Army Plaza is at 59th Street and 5th Avenue in Manhattan, New York. It is in front of the Plaza Hotel. It is opposite the southeast corner of Central Park. The sculptor Karl Bitter first had the idea for the Plaza in 1898. It is named after the Grand Army of the Potomac. The Carrère and Hastings architecture firm designed it. Construction was finished in 1916. \n\nThe Plaza is oval. 59th street divides it into northern and southern parts. The northern part has a golden statue of William Tecumseh Sherman designed by Augustus Saint-Gaudens. The statue features Sherman on a horse with the goddess \"Victory\" in front of him. There are often temporary sculpture exhibits at the north side of the plaza.\n\nThe southern part is the Plaza of the Pulitzer Fountain of Abundance. This fountain was designed by Bitter and paid for by Joseph Pulitzer. A bronze statue of the Roman goddess Pomona is at the top of the fountain. The statue of Pomona was the last one that Bitter designed. \n\nThe plaza was renovated in 1990 at a cost of $3.7 million. The Plaza Hotel is named for the Plaza, and is at its southwest corner.\n\n", "id": "302836", "title": "Grand Army Plaza (Manhattan)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302839", "text": "USS Enterprise (CV-6)\n\nUSS \"Enterprise\" (CV-6), often called the \"Big E,\" was the sixth aircraft carrier of the United States Navy. She was also the seventh U.S. Navy ship to use the name. She was launched in 1936 and was a \"Yorktown\" class aircraft carrier. She was one of three American carriers brought into service before World War II which survived the war. She took part in more fights against Japan than any other U.S. ship. These fights included the Battle of Midway, the Battle of the Eastern Solomons, the Battle of the Santa Cruz Islands, many other fights during the Guadalcanal campaign, the Battle of the Philippine Sea, and the Battle of Leyte Gulf. At three different times during the Pacific War, the Japanese said that she had been sunk in battle. This lead her to be nicknamed \"The Grey Ghost\".\n\n\"Enterprise\" earned 20 battle stars. This was more than any other U.S. warship in World War II. Some have said that she is the most glorious and honored ship in the history of the United States Navy. However, the 18th century frigate USS \"Constitution\" could perhaps rival that.\n\n\"Enterprise\" was launched on 3 October 1936 at Newport News Shipbuilding. She was sponsored by Lulie Swanson, who was the wife of the Secretary of the Navy Claude A. Swanson. \"Enterprise\" was commissioned on 12 May 1938. \"Enterprise\" sailed south so that her performance could be tested. This took her to Rio de Janeiro. After she returned, she was used along the east coast and in the Caribbean until April 1939. This is when she was ordered to serve in the Pacific.\n\n\"Enterprise\" was one of fourteen ships to be fitted with the RCA CXAM-1 RADAR. She was first based in San Diego (where she was used in the movie \"Dive Bomber\") and then at Pearl Harbor after President Roosevelt ordered the Fleet to be based far forward. \"Enterprise\" and the aircraft squads she carries trained a lot and moved aircraft among the island bases of the Pacific. \"Enterprise\" left Pearl Harbor on 28 November 1941. \"Enterprise\" was completing a transport mission, returning to Hawaii after moving Marine Fighter Squadron 211 (VMF-211) to Wake Island on 7 December 1941. This was when the Japanese attacked Pearl Harbor.\n\n\"Enterprise\" was returning to Oahu on the morning of 7 December 1941. 18 SBD Dauntlesses from \"Enterprise\" squadrons Scouting Squadron Six (VS-6) and Bombing Squadron Six (VB-6) arrived at Pearl Harbor while the Japanese were attacking it. Even though they were surprised, they quickly went into action to defend Pearl Harbor. VS-6 lost six planes during the attack. VB-6 lost one. Many of these planes were shot down by the Japanese. However, at least one plane was lost to anti-aircraft (AA) fire, and many more were damaged. During the battle, one radio report was heard: \"Do not attack me, this is Six Baker Three an American plane\". Later, the same pilot (Ensign Manuel Gonzales from VB-6) was heard telling his radioman/gunner to get ready to land on the water. Lieutenant C. E. Dickinson and his crewmate William C. Miller, from VS-6, shot down one Japanese plane before they had to jump out after their plane caught fire. Dickinson later went to Ford Island to fly another plane. He took part when the United States were searching for the Japanese fleet. \n\n\"Enterprise\" also sent up six F4F Wildcats from Fighting Squadron Six (VF-6) during the attack. All of these aircraft except two were shot down by shellshocked AA gunners when they tried to land on Ford Island later that night. \"Enterprise\" got her aircraft ready to go on a large search for the Japanese force that attacked Pearl Harbor. They search was to the south and west of Oahu. However, the Japanese had started moving northwest. \"Enterprise\" went into Pearl Harbor for fuel and supplies on the night of 8 December. Early the next morning, she went to patrol the rest of the Hawaiian Islands to make sure there were no more attacks. Even though the group did not find any ships, \"Enterprise\" aircraft sank Japanese submarine . \"I-70\" was sunk at on 10 December 1941.\n\nDuring the last two weeks of December 1941, \"Enterprise\" and her group moved to the west of Hawaii to make sure those islands were not attacked. Two other groups tried to help at Wake Island at the same time. After the \"Enterprise\" group had a short rest at Pearl Harbor, they left on 11 January. They were protecting ships sending help to Samoa. On 1 February, \"Enterprise\"'s Task Force 8 raided Kwajalein, Wotje, and Maloelap in the Marshall Islands. They sank three ships, damaged eight and destroyed many aircraft.\n\nFive days later, \"Enterprise\" sailed for the South Pacific to help other U.S. carriers in the Coral Sea. However, the Battle of the Coral Sea was over before \"Enterprise\" got there. \n\nOn 28 May, \"Enterprise\" moved, as Rear Admiral Raymond A. Spruance's flagship, to Midway. She was ordered to hold Midway and do as much damage to the enemy as possible. USS \"Hornet\", six cruisers and 10 destroyers were with \"Enterprise\" on that day. \n\nBoth the Americans and Japanese launched air attacks. Even though the fighting went on until 7 June, by the end of 4 June the result had been decided. The Battle of Midway began on the morning of 4 June 1942, when four Japanese carriers attacked on Midway Island. The Japanese did not know that the U.S. Navy was in the area. Just three hours after the first bomb hit Midway, planes from the U.S. carriers attacked. \"Enterprise\" launched an attack using torpedo bombers, but this failed. Soon after this, \"Enterprise\" dive bombers attacked and sank the Japanese carriers and . Later in the afternoon, bombers from \"Enterprise\" and USS \"Yorktown\" sank (aircraft from \"Yorktown\" also sank ). \"Yorktown\" and USS \"Hammann\" were the only American ships sunk, but 113 planes were lost. 61 of these were lost during the attacks. Japanese losses were much bigger. They lost four carriers, one cruiser and 272 planes. Even though she lost many planes, \"Enterprise\" returned to Pearl Harbor on 13 June 1942 undamaged.\n\nAfter a month of rest, \"Enterprise\" headed on 15 July 1942 for the South Pacific. There, she helped support the attack on the Solomon Islands on 8 August. During the Battle of the Eastern Solomons, the Japanese light carrier \"Ryūjō\" was sunk. The Japanese troops that were supposed to land on Guadalcanal was forced back. \"Enterprise\" was hit three times. 77 sailors were killed and 91 were hurt. \"Enterprise\" was damaged badly.\n\n\"Enterprise\" was fixed at Pearl Harbor from 10 September-16 October 1942.\n\nOn 13 November, pilots from \"Enterprise\" helped to sink . When the Naval Battle of Guadalcanal ended on 15 November 1942, \"Enterprise\" had helped to sink 16 ships and damage eight more. \n\nOn July 20 1943, \"Enterprise\" started being upgraded. These happened over several months. She was given an anti-torpedo blister. This meant that the carrier would be protected more against torpedoes.\n\n\"Enterprise\" was back by November 1943. She helped the U.S. soldiers landing on Makin Atoll from 19–21 November 1943. \n\n\"Enterprise\" launched planes to strike the Marshall Islands and helped U.S. soldiers land on Kwajalein from 29 January-3 February 1944. Then she went to strike the Japanese base in Truk Lagoon in the Caroline Islands on 17 February. \n\n\"Enterprise\" launched planes to hit Jaluit Atoll on 20 February. She helped troops who were landing on Emirau Island (19–25 March). On 14 April she helped troops to land in Hollandia (currently known as Jayapura), in New Guinea.\n\nOn 19 June 1944, \"Enterprise\" took part in the Battle of the Philippine Sea. For over eight hours, American and Japanese pilots fought. Over two days, six American ships were damaged. 130 planes and 76 pilots and aircrew were lost. American aircraft and U.S. submarines sank three Japanese carriers (, , and ). The Japanese lost 426 planes.\n\n\"Enterprise\" helped to defend the U.S. ships and to strike the Japanese ships. After the battle, \"Enterprise\" helped with the invasion of Saipan until 5 July. She then went back to Pearl Harbor for a month of rest. She came back on 24 August and attacked the Bonin Islands from 31 August – 2 September.\n\nIn the Battle of Leyte Gulf (23–26 October), \"Enterprise\" planes attacked battleships and destroyers. During November, planes from \"Enterprise\" hit Manila and Yap. She returned to Pearl Harbor on 6 December 1944.\n\n\"Enterprise\" sailed to Pearl Harbor with 1,100 soldiers. She then started sailing to Europe. She brought 10,000 soldiers home. During the Enterprise’s last trip, the ship was caught in very high winds in the Atlantic. The crew almost abandoned ship. \"Enterprise\" had to go back to New York.\n\n\"Enterprise\" got a British Admiralty Pennant. The pennant was given to \"Enterprise\" as a gift from an ally. \"Enterprise\" is the only non-Royal Navy ship to get the award in more than 400 years.\n\n\"Enterprise\" went into the New York Naval Shipyard on 18 January 1946 to be deactivated. In 1946, she was going to be given to the state of New York to be a memorial. However, this plan was cancelled in 1949. The \"Big E\" was sold on 1 July 1958 to the Lipsett Corporation to be scrapped. Scrapping was done in May 1960. \n\nIn November 1961, USS \"Enterprise\" (CVA(N)-65) was brought into service. This was the world's first nuclear-powered aircraft carrier. The was decommissioned on 1 December 2012. Another \"Enterprise\" would be a , CVN-80. \n\n\"Enterprise\" was awarded a Presidential Unit Citation for her service during World War II. The citation says:\n\"Enterprise\" also got the Navy Unit Commendation and 20 battle stars for World War II service. This means that she is the highest decorated US ship ever.\n\n\n", "id": "302839", "title": "USS Enterprise (CV-6)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302843", "text": "Pentagon Force Protection Agency\n\nThe Pentagon Force Protection Agency (PFPA) protects and keeps safe the occupants, visitors, and infrastructure of the Pentagon, Navy Annex and other assigned Pentagon facilities. PFPA is a civilian Defense Agency within the United States Department of Defense. PFPA does its job using law enforcement officers (Pentagon Police), criminal investigative and protective services agents; threat management agents; chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear and explosives technicians; and anti-terrorism/force protection and physical security personnel.\n\nThe mission of the Pentagon Police Department (PPD) is to promote high quality law enforcement and security services, in order to provide a safe and orderly work environment for Department of Defense workers in the Washington, DC area.\n\nFormerly The Defense Protective Service (DPS), The Pentagon Police have exclusive jurisdiction within the Pentagon Reservation and share concurrent jurisdiction with other police agencies in an area of approximately around the complex. Arlington County, Virginia also gave the Pentagon Police officers conditional police authority throughout Arlington County. The United States Pentagon Police is also charged with the protection of certain Department of Defense executive officers.\n\nPentagon Police officers are Federal law enforcement officers, appointed under Title 10 Section 2674 of the United States Code. They receive their initial training at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center in Glynco, Georgia.\nThe mission of the Anti-Terrorism / Force Protection Directorate (AT/FP) is to provide Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD) interests throughout the National Capital Region with a total AT/FP program designed to protect lives, facilities, information and equipment. The AT/FP Division advises Pentagon leaders on AT/FP matters; conducts anti-terrorism training for all OSD workers; gathers, analyzes and disseminates threat information as it relates to AT/FP; develops AT/FP plans and programs, conducts threat/vulnerability assessments and performs other duties pursuant to the protection and security of the Pentagon.\n\nThe AT/FP Directorate is composed of highly trained anti-terrorism and security specialists responsible for deterring, detecting, and responding against terrorist activity particularly when the Secretary of Defense or other Department of Defense employees are the target. They are leaders in this effort even when top Defense officials are away from the Pentagon.\n\nThe Criminal Investigations & Protective Directorate investigates violations of the United States Code within the jurisdiction of PFPA and provide executive protection to DoD High Risk Personnel (HRP) in the Washington area.\n\nPFPA Special Agent's (1811) investigate violations of federal criminal laws. The agents also provide protection during visits by foreign Ministers of Defense to the 48 contiguous United States. They also protect other visits designated by the Office of the Secretary of Defense. CIPD's Operations Section is responsible for coordinating protection missions and providing around-the-clock (\"24/7\") support for field agents.\n\nThe Protective Services Unit (PSU) is responsible for providing protective support for the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman and Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff at the Pentagon Building. They handle visits to the Pentagon by foreign and domestic dignitaries, as well as cover protection for special events on the Pentagon Reservation, most recently noted the dedication of the 9/11 memorial. The police officers assigned to PSU provide residence security in hotels while traveling with HRP's both inside and outside of the United States.\n\nThis unit guards the Pentagon and other nearby Department of Defense facilities against possible attacks. It checks all mail and deliveries. CBRNE also monitors the environment at the Pentagon and DOD installations to make sure that they do not have these hazards. When a suspicious item is found, bomb experts are sent to examine and sometimes to destroy the item.\nThis group manages PFPA's computers and networks. It maintains security alarms and sensoring systems. It operates the computerized locks that control building access.\nThis group issues Pentagon building passes. It operates all barriers and gates that control access on the Pentagon campus. It reviews all requests from people to take pictures of the Pentagon.\n\n", "id": "302843", "title": "Pentagon Force Protection Agency"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302847", "text": "Linaceae\n\nThe Linaceae is a family of flowering plants. The family is cosmopolitan, and includes exactly 250 species. There are 14 genera, classified into two subfamilies: Linoideae and Hugonioideae (often recognized as a distinct family, the Hugoniaceae). Leaves of Linaceae are always simple. Their arrangement varies from alternate (most species) to opposite (in \"Sclerolinon\" and some \"Linum\") or whorled (in some \"Hesperolinon\" and \"Linum\").\n", "id": "302847", "title": "Linaceae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302849", "text": "National Museum of the Marine Corps\n\nThe National Museum of the Marine Corps is the historical museum of the United States Marine Corps. It is located in Quantico, Virginia. It is open to the public with free admission. The museum had its grand opening on November 10, 2006. Over 500,000 people visit the museum each year. \n\nThe museum is a public-private venture, a cooperative effort of the United States Marine Corps and the Marine Corps Heritage Foundation. The Foundation manages the museum operation, while the museum building will be donated to the Marine Corps. The Foundation raised $60 million to build the building. The Marine Corps spent $30 million to build the museum's exhibits and displays.\n\nOn the day the museum opened, President George W. Bush gave a dedication speech and also presented the Medal of Honor to the family of fallen Marine Jason Dunham.\n\nPresident Bush said, \"These walls remind all who visit here that honor, courage, and commitment are not just words. They are core values for a way of life that puts service above self. And these walls will keep the history of the Marine Corps alive for generations of Americans to come.\"\n\nCurtis W. Fentress, FAIA, RIBA of Fentress Architects, designed the museum building. The exterior design is meant to \"evoke the image of the flag raisers of Iwo Jima,\" an image that is also preserved by the USMC War Memorial. The 210 ft steel spire is like the Iwo Jima flagpole. The museum is a tribute to the U.S. Marines who have served their country since 1775.\n\nThe new museum replaces the Marine Corps Historical Center, in the Washington Navy Yard, which closed 1 July 2005, and the Marine Corps Air-Ground Museum, in Quantico, Virginia, which closed on 15 November 2002.\nThe museum building was designed for expansion. New galleries can be added around the circular lobby. On June 5, 2010, 12,000 square feet of additional galleries were added. They cost $12 million.\n\nIn October 2010, skylights in the museum lobby were shot on two different evenings as a part of the Northern Virginia military shootings. On April 14, 2011, the Semper Fidelis Memorial Park was dedicated. It covers 23.2 acres and includes 1.07 miles of new walking trails.\n\nThe Marine Corps Heritage Foundation, established in 1979, is a private, non-profit organization which was established in support of historical programs of the Marine Corps. The MCHF programs initially included \"education, awards, publications, special projects, preservation...\" In 1999, the Foundation expanded its mission to include the creation of the National Museum of the Marine Corps.\n\nThe National Museum of the Marine Corps is designed to be the centerpiece of a complex of facilities called the Marine Corps Heritage Center. This multi-use, campus includes the Semper Fidelis Memorial Park and Semper Fidelis Chapel; a demonstration area with parade grounds; hiking trails and other outdoor recreational offerings; a conference center and hotel; and an archive facility to restore and preserve Marine artifacts.\n\nThe chapel, designed by Fentress Architects, was completed in 2009 with a donation of $5 million from a retired Marine.\n\nThe museum features the following permanent exhibits, which were designed by Christopher Chadbourne and Associates, Inc.:\nOn 5 June 2010 the following three exhibits were opened.\n\nThe historical exhibits including displays of artifacts, multimedia, and full immersion experiences. For example, the exhibit on wintertime in the Korean War is in a room cooled to a lower temperature. The museum building also include class rooms, a theater, a gift shop, bar and a restaurant.\nThe museum hosts lectures by historians and military experts. The Marine Corps Band performs a summer concert series. The Arts Mentorship Program has interships for student artists attending the Prince William County schools.\n\n", "id": "302849", "title": "National Museum of the Marine Corps"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302850", "text": "Celastrales\n\nCelastrales is an order of flowering plants. They are found throughout the tropics and subtropics, with only a few species extending far into the temperate regions. There are about 1200 to 1350 species in about 100 genera. All but 7 of these genera are in the large family Celastraceae. Until recently, the composition of the order and its division into families varied greatly from one author to another.\n", "id": "302850", "title": "Celastrales"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302852", "text": "Celastraceae\n\nCelastraceae the staff-tree family, in the order Celastrales, comprising about 55 genera of woody vines, shrubs, and trees, native in tropical and temperate zones but best known for ornamental forms of the genera \"Euonymus\" and \"Celastrus\" (bittersweet). Fruit of the family is often colourful. Leaves are frequently leathery and flowers are small, with four to five sepals and petals; alternating between the petals, stamens rise from a usually conspicuous nectar disk.\n", "id": "302852", "title": "Celastraceae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302856", "text": "Arlington National Cemetery\n\nArlington National Cemetery is a cemetery in Arlington County, Virginia. People who served in the United States military are buried here. The cemetery started during the American Civil War. It is on a big farm called Arlington House. Arlington House was the home of Mary Anna Custis Lee. Mary Anna Custis Lee was a great-granddaughter of Martha Washington. She was also the wife of Confederate general Robert E. Lee. Although most of the farm now has graves, the old farmhouse still stands in the middle of the cemetery. The cemetery is across the Potomac River from the Lincoln Memorial in Washington, D.C..\n\nThe cemetery covers . People who died serving the United States in a war, and military veterans are allowed to be buried in the cemetery. People are buried here who fought in wars from American Civil War to the military actions in Afghanistan and Iraq. People who were buried here before the Civil War were reburied after 1900.\n\nArlington National Cemetery is taken care of by the United States Army. Arlington House (Custis-Lee Mansion) and its land are taken care of by the National Park Service as a memorial to Lee. Recently, the way the cemetery is managed caused controversy.\n\nGeorge Washington Parke Custis was the grandson of Martha Washington, and grew up with Martha and George Washington. He got the land that now is Arlington National Cemetery in 1802. He began building Arlington House, where he lived with his wife Mary Lee Fitzhugh Custis. The land and house was given to their only child that lived to be an adult, Mary Anna Custis Lee. She was married to Robert E. Lee, a West Point graduate and United States Army officer. When Fort Sumter was forced to surrender at the beginning of the American Civil War, President Abraham Lincoln asked Lee to be the general of the federal army. Lee did not give an answer right away, but waited to see if his home state of Virginia would leave the Union.\n\nLee left the federal army when Virginia said it was leaving the United States. He decided he could not fight against his home state. He became the leader of the armed forces of the Commonwealth of Virginia. He then became commander of the Army of Northern Virginia. Lee was a great commander and won several battles against the Union forces. Most Union officers thought Lee had broken his promises to the Union because he chose to fight against them. Part of Arlington was taken away from the Lee family and became a graveyard. Mostly Union dead are buried there.\n\nBefore the Civil War, the United States did not have large military-only cemeteries. Important generals were buried in the Congressional Cemetery with other important leaders. American military cemeteries were needed on distant frontiers, and near battles and hospitals where many soldiers died. When dead Civil War soldiers filled the burial grounds near Washington, D.C., Quartermaster General Montgomery C. Meigs proposed in 1864 that of the Robert E. Lee family property at Arlington be taken for a cemetery.\n\nDuring the Civil War, people invented tricks to capture or to make life hard for Americans that fought on the other side of the war. The government assessed taxes on properties and insisted that the owners appear in person to pay them. If the plantation owner did not come, the government would sell the land. The government bought Arlington at tax sale in 1864 for $26,800. Mrs. Lee did not show up in person, but rather had sent an agent to pay the $92.07 in property taxes that were owed for the land. The government turned away her agent, refusing to accept the tax payment. In 1874, Custis Lee, heir under his grandfather's will passing the estate in trust to his mother, sued the United States claiming ownership of Arlington. After the U.S. Supreme Court ruled 5-4 in Lee's favor in \"United States v. Lee\", deciding that Arlington had been taken illegally, Congress returned the land to him. The next year, Custis Lee sold it back to the government for $150,000. Custis Lee and Robert Todd Lincoln, Secretary of War and son of President Lincoln, were both present when the property was officially turned over to the government.\n\nIn 2011, Hurricane Irene killed six large trees at the cemetery. The 220-year-old \"Arlington Oak\" fell down near the grave of John F. Kennedy.\n\nArlington National Cemetery is divided into 70 sections, with some sections in the southeast part of the cemetery saved for future use. Section 60, in the southeast part of the cemetery, is the burial ground for military personnel killed in the Iraq War and the War in Afghanistan. In 2005, Arlington National Cemetery bought another from the National Park Service, along with from the Department of Defense that was part of Fort Myer and that is the site of the Navy Annex.\n\nSection 21, also known as the Nurses Section, is the area of Arlington National Cemetery where many nurses are buried. The Nurses Memorial is there. In the cemetery, there is a Confederate section with graves of soldiers of the Confederate States of America and a Confederate Memorial. All Confederate headstones are peaked rather than rounded. In Section 27, there are buried more than 3,800 former slaves, called \"Contrabands\" during the Civil War. Their headstones are designated with the word \"Civilian\" or \"Citizen\".\n\nThe United States Department of Veterans Affairs takes care of the National Cemetery Administration's requests for the words and faith emblems (a cross, Jewish star, etc.) at no charge to the family of the dead put on upright marble headstones or columbarium niche covers. There are 39 authorized faith emblems available for placement to represent the deceased's faith. See also, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs webpage \"Available Emblems of Belief for Placement on Government Headstones\" and \"Markers\" Markers\n\nThe cemetery had allowed privately-purchased markers in certain burial areas. Since 2001, the areas that the cemetery permitted such markers in are filled. The older sections of the cemetery have many different private markers, including artillery pieces.\n\nThe Tomb of the Unknowns at Arlington National Cemetery is also called the \"Tomb of the Unknown Soldier\". It stands on top of a hill overlooking Washington, D.C. It honors soldiers who died without their bodies being identified.\n\nThe Tomb is one of the more popular sites at the Cemetery. The tomb is made from Yule marble quarried in Colorado. It consists of seven pieces, with a total weight of 79 short tons (72 metric tons). The tomb was completed and opened to the public April 9, 1932, at a cost of $48,000.\n\nU.S. Army guards have stood watch at the Tomb of the Unknowns at all times since July 2, 1937. The 3rd U.S. Infantry Regiment (\"The Old Guard\") began guarding the Tomb April 6, 1948.\n\nThe Tomb of the Unknowns is part of the Arlington Memorial Amphitheater. The Memorial Amphitheater has hosted state funerals and Memorial Day and Veterans Day ceremonies. Ceremonies are also held for Easter. About 5,000 people attend these holiday ceremonies each year. The structure is mostly built of Imperial Danby marble from Vermont. The Memorial Display room, between the amphitheater and the Tomb of the Unknowns, uses Botticino stone, imported from Italy. The amphitheater was the result of a campaign by Ivory Kimball to construct a place to honor America's soldiers. Congress authorized the structure March 4, 1913. Woodrow Wilson laid the cornerstone for the building on October 15, 1915. The cornerstone contained 15 items including a Bible and a copy of the Constitution.\n\nThe Netherlands Carillon is a carillon (bell tower) that was a gift from the Netherlands to the people of the United States in 1954, in thanks for their efforts during World War II. The bells are played by people with special training. This happens regularly during the summer and on special days. Recorded tunes are played on the hour and during the day. It is next to Arlington National Cemetery, on the north side.\n\nIt is now hard to find space to build new memorials at the cemetery. The army worries that new memorials take up space that could otherwise be used for graves. The army requires a joint or concurrent resolution from Congress before it will place new memorials onto the cemetery grounds. Still, there are several memorials on the cemetery grounds, and groups regularly ask for space for new memorials.\n\nThe Space Shuttle \"Challenger\" Memorial was dedicated on May 20, 1986, in memory of the crew of flight STS-51-L, who died during launch on January 28, 1986. Written on the back of the stone is the text of the John Gillespie Magee, Jr. poem \"High Flight\". Although many remains were identified and returned to the families for private burial, some were not, and were laid to rest under the marker. Two of the crew members, Scobee and Smith, are buried in Arlington, as well. There is a similar memorial to those who died when the Shuttle \"Columbia\" broke apart during reentry on February 1, 2003. It was dedicated on the first anniversary of the disaster. Astronauts Laurel Clark, David Brown and Michael Anderson are also buried in Arlington.\n\nThe Cairn, the Lockerbie memorial is a memorial to the 270 killed in the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. The memorial is made up of 270 stones, one for each person killed in the disaster. In section 64, there is a memorial to the 184 victims of the September 11 attacks on the Pentagon. The memorial takes the shape of a pentagon, and lists the names of all the victims that were killed.\n\nThere are only two mausoleums located within the confines of the cemetery. One is for the family of General Nelson Appleton Miles in Section 3 and the other one belongs to the family of General Thomas Crook Sullivan and it is in Section 1.\n\nThere is a Commonwealth Cross of Sacrifice with the names of all the citizens of the USA who lost their lives fighting in the Canadian forces during the Korean War and the two world wars.\n\nThe \"Women in Military Service for America Memorial\" is at the Ceremonial Entrance to Arlington National Cemetery.\nThe first soldier to be buried in Arlington was Private William Henry Christman of Pennsylvania on May 13, 1864.\n\n\nWhether or not they were wartime service members, U.S. presidents are eligible to be buried at Arlington, since they oversaw the armed forces as commanders-in-chief.\n\nFour state funerals have been held at Arlington: those of Presidents William Howard Taft and John F. Kennedy, that of General John J. Pershing, and that of U.S. Senator Edward M. Kennedy.\n\nAs of May 2006, there were 367 Medal of Honor recipients buried in Arlington National Cemetery. Nine of these recipients are Canadians.\n\n\nWarrant Officer Gregory S. Crandall's helicopter was shot down over Savannakhet province, Laos, on February 18, 1971. In May of that year the military listed him KIA. According to Arlington National cemetery records John Manning, chief of the Army's Mortuary Affairs Branch stated that witnesses to the crash reported that the ...\"helicopter burst into flames and exploded when it hit the ground.\". It was also reported that there were a series of seven explosions. The remains of Crandall and two other soldiers were recovered in February 1991 and on September 17, 1993, with full military honors, a full sized steel casket, and at the protest of the family, the remains of Warrant Officer Gregory S. Crandall, a single No. 4 maxillary premolar tooth, was buried.\n\n\n\n", "id": "302856", "title": "Arlington National Cemetery"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302857", "text": "Torquoselectivity\n\nIn organic chemistry, torquoselectivity describes electrocyclic reactions that produce one isomer more than the other. An official definition is \"the preference for inward or outward rotation of substituents in conrotatory\nor disrotatory electrocyclic reactions.\" In other words, a chemical reaction is torquoselective if the groups of atoms that hang from a ring of atoms are more likely to have rotated in a particular direction during the reaction (instead of being equally likely to rotate in both possible directions.) Torquoselectivity is different from the normal diastereoselectivity of pericyclic reactions. Instead it is more selectivity beyond the Woodward–Hoffmann rules. The name comes from the idea that the substituents in an electrocyclization appear to rotate during the reaction. The reaction produces a single product because only one direction of rotation was allowed (that is, the direction of rotation on the substituents was favored). The concept was originally developed by Kendall N. Houk.\n\nWhen a chemical reaction closes a ring, its torquoselectivity is the same as enantioselectivity. A single enantiomer of a cyclization product is formed from the selective ring closure of the starting material. In a typical electrocyclic ring closing, selection for either conrotatory or disrotatory reactions modes still produces two enantiomers. Torquoselectivity is a discrimination \"between\" these possible enantiomers that requires asymmetric induction.\n\nTorquoselectivity also happens in selective electrocyclic reactions that break open rings. The different directions of rotation produce distinct structural isomers. In these cases, steric strain is often the driving force for the selectivity. Studies have shown that the selectivity can also be changed by the presence of electron donating and electron withdrawing groups.\n\nTorquoselectivity can also apply to other mechanisms, including chiral Lewis acid catalysts, induction by neighboring stereocenters (in which case the torquoselectivity is a case of diastereoselectivity), and axial-to-tetrahedral chirality transfer. An example of axial-to-tetrahedral chirality transfer is shown below for the torquoselective Nazarov cyclization reaction of a chiral allenyl vinyl ketone. \n", "id": "302857", "title": "Torquoselectivity"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302858", "text": "2011 Pan American Games\n\nThe 16th Pan American Games were held in 2011 in Guadalajara, Mexico. Over 6,000 athletes from 42 countries competed in 36 sports.\n", "id": "302858", "title": "2011 Pan American Games"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302859", "text": "William Kidd\n\nCaptain Kidd, or, by his real name, \"William Kidd\", (c. 1645 – 23 May 1701) was a Scottish pirate and sailor. It is heard that he buried a treasure chest on a deserted island. The chest had a lot of gold and jewels in it. He was found guilty of murder and was executed by hanging at 'Execution Dock', Wapping, in London on 23 May 1701.\n", "id": "302859", "title": "William Kidd"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302861", "text": "Gripper\n\nA gripper is something that grips things or makes it easier to grip things. It may refer to:\n\n", "id": "302861", "title": "Gripper"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302863", "text": "Jeff Kent\n\nJeffrey Franklin Kent (born March 7, 1968) was an American baseball player. He played second base. He played for six different teams, including the New York Mets, San Francisco Giants, and Los Angeles Dodgers. He was a five-time All-Star, and the 2000 National League MVP. In his career, he batted .290, with 2,461 hits, 377 home runs and 1,518 RBIs. He has more home runs than any other second baseman. He also drove in 90 or more batters in nine straight seasons.\n\nKent was from Bellflower, California and went to high school in Huntington Beach.\n", "id": "302863", "title": "Jeff Kent"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302864", "text": "Angel shark\n\nAn angel shark is a species of cartilaginous fish in the genus Squatina. They have flattened bodies and wide pectoral fins, which make them look similar to rays. Twenty-three species are known. \n\nThe genus is the only one in its family, Squatinidae, and order Squatiniformes. They are worldwide in temperate and tropical seas. Most species are in shallow temperate or tropical seas, but one species is found in deeper water, down to 1,300 metres. Angel sharks are specialised for a kind of predation which is unusual for sharks.\nThey are ambush predators. They have extensible jaws with long, needle-like teeth. They quickly snap upwards to capture prey. They bury themselves in sand or mud lying in wait for their prey, which includes fish, crustaceans, and many different types of mollusks. \n\nThe front part of the angel sharks' bodies are wide and flattened, but the back part is more muscular. The eyes and spiracles are on the top, and the five gill slits are on its back. Both the pectoral fins and the pelvic fins are large and are held horizontally. There are two dorsal fins, no anal fin. Unusually for sharks, the lower lobe of the caudal fin is longer than the upper lobe. Most types of angel sharks grow to a length of about 1.5 metres: the Japanese angelshark reaches two metres. They are ovoviviparous, and can have up to 13 pups at a time.\n\nAlthough angel sharks are bottom dwellers and appear harmless, they can give painful bites if provoked, due to their powerful jaws and sharp teeth. Angel sharks may bite if a diver approaches the head or grabs the tail. \n", "id": "302864", "title": "Angel shark"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302865", "text": "Goblin shark\n\nThe Goblin shark (\"Mitsukurina owstoni\") is a rare, poorly-known species of deep-sea shark. Sometimes called a \"living fossil\", it is the only living species in the family Mitsukurinidae.\n\nThe Goblin shark can be easily identified by its long, flattened snout. Males can reach up to lengths of 12.6 feet (3.8 metres), and females can reach up to lengths of 12.2 feet (3.7 metres). The heaviest Goblin shark found weighed 210 kg (460 pounds).\n\nThe Goblin shark is a bottom-dwelling shark, being found in waters as deep as 4265 feet (1,300 metres). It has been found in the Atlantic, Indian, and Pacific Ocean.\n\nThe Goblin shark can be easily identified by its long, flattened snout. It has a noticeably long head, tiny eyes and five short gill openings. The mouth is large and parabolic in shape. Its body is soft and flabby. This shark has a long caudal fin without a ventral lobe. The pectoral fins are short and wide, and the two dorsal fins are small, round and equal in size. The anal fin is round and smaller than the dorsal fins, while the pelvic fins are larger than the dorsals. The Goblin shark has a long extendable jaw, with long, thin teeth. The shape of its body shows that the Goblin shark is a slow moving species of shark.\nLiving Goblin sharks are a pinkish-white colour with bluish fins. Specimens fade and become a brownish colour when preserved in alcohol. \nGoblin sharks have 26 long, thin, spike-like teeth on their upper jaw and 24 on their lower jaw. They have three rows of front teeth on each side of both jaws. The teeth in the front upper jaw are separated from the smaller upper side teeth by a gap.\nMature male Goblin sharks have been found to reach lengths ranching from 8.66 to 12.6 feet (2.6 to 3.8 metres) long. Mature females have been found to reach lengths ranching from 11 to 12.2 feet (3.4 to 3.7 metres). The size at birth is not known, but the smallest specimen found was 3.51 feet (1.07 metres) long. The heaviest Goblin shark found weighed 210 kg (460 pounds), and was 3.8 metres (12 feet) long.\n\nThis species of deep-sea shark is thought to be widely distributed. Specimens have been seen in the Atlantic, off the coast of Guyana, Surinam, French Guiana, France, Madeira, Senegal, Portugal, and the Gulf of Guinea. It has also been reported in the western Pacific off Japan, Australia and New Zealand. In the Indian Ocean it is found off South Africa and Mozambique. It was recently recorded in the U.S.A near San Clemente Island off the coast of California, as well as in the northern Gulf of Mexico, south of Pascagoula, Mississippi.\n\nThe Goblin shark is a bottom-dwelling shark that is rarely seen at the surface or in shallow coastal waters. This species is found along the outer continental shelves, upper slopes, and off seamounts. Most specimens have been observed near continental slopes, between 885 and 3149 feet (270 and 960 metres) deep. It has been found in waters up to 4265 feet (1,300 metres) deep, and in waters as shallow as 311 to 449 feet (95 to 137 metres). Records show that the Goblin shark could also be an oceanic species.\n\nThe Goblin shark senses its prey with the help of electro-sensitive organs. The jaws are made for rapid projection to help in the capture of prey. The jaw is thrust forward by a double set of ligaments at the mandibular (lower jaw) joints. When the jaws are withdrawn, the ligaments are stretched and they become relaxed when the jaw is projected forward. The jaws are usually held tightly while swimming, and have a function like a catapult when the Goblin shark wants to feed. The front teeth are made for crushing. The Goblin shark feeds on shrimps, pelagic octopuses, fish, and squids. It is also thought to feed on crabs, and deep-sea rockfish.\n\nThere is no proper information about the reproduction habits of the Goblin shark. No pregnant female has been found or captured. It is believed that they are ovoviviparous, meaing that the young are born live, but there is no placental connection, instead the embryos are nourished by egg yolk. There is no real information of when the Goblin shark matures, when and how it mates, and how long the gestation period lasts.\n\nThe Goblin shark is fished commercially off Japan, and is sometimes caught along with cutlassfish off Portugal. Elsewhere, they are taken mainly as bycatch of deep-water trawls and occasionally with deep-water longlines, deep-set gillnets, and possibly purse seines.\n\nThe Goblin shark is probably harmless, but since it has rarely been encountered by humans it is not yet possible to tell. Although probably common, this species of shark is rarely seen and is therefore poorly known.\n", "id": "302865", "title": "Goblin shark"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302866", "text": "Blue shark\n\nThe blue shark (\"Prionace glauca\") is a species of requiem shark. It has a slim, smooth-looking body with large eyes, and a long, cone-shaped snout. The dorsal surface is a dark blue colour, and the belly is white.\n\nThe largest blue sharks can reach lengths of up to 3.8 metres, and weigh as much as 206 kg. The shark is found worldwide in temperate and tropical waters. They range from the surface to as deep as 350 metres, and prefer water with the temperature of 7 to 16 °C.\n\nThe blue shark has a slim, smooth-looking body with large eyes, and a long, cone-shaped snout that is longer than the width of its mouth. It has extremely long, pointed pectoral fins, which are usually as long as the distance from its snout to the front of its gill slit. The dorsal fin is moderate in size. It is located closer to the pelvic fins than to the pectoral fins. The blue shark's name comes from its distinct dark blue dorsal surface, and bright blue sides. The belly is white. The colours of the blue shark help it to camouflage in the open ocean. The largest blue shark on record measured 3.8 metres (12.5 feet), but they are rumored to get as large as 6.1 metres (20 feet). Males reach maturity at the ages of 4–5 years, when they are at the lengths of between 1.8-2.8 metres (6-9.2 feet). Females mature at slightly older ages from 5–6 years, when they are at the lengths of between 2.2-3.2 metres (7.2-10.5 feet). The largest blue sharks range in weights from 204–206 kg (450-454 pounds).\n\nBlue sharks are found worldwide, in temperate and tropical waters. They are a pelagic species that rarely comes near shore. They have been known to frequently swim to inshore areas around oceanic islands, and locations where the continental shelf is narrow. In the western Atlantic they can be found from Newfoundland, Canada to Argentina. In the eastern Atlantic they range from Norway to South Africa, including the Mediterranean. In the Indian Ocean, they range from South Africa to Indonesia. In the western Pacific they are found from Japan to New Zealand. In the eastern Pacific, Blue sharks range from the Gulf of Alaska to Chile.\n\nBeing a pelagic species, the shark's habitat consists of open ocean areas, from the surface to 350 metres (1,148 feet) in depth. They prefer cooler water ranging from 7 to 16 °C (45-61 °F) in temperature. They are known to swim in water with the temperature of 21 °C (70 °F) or greater. When in the tropics, the shark usually swims to deeper water with cooler temperatures. This is common in the tropical Indian Ocean, where the majority of Blue sharks are found at depths of 80–220 metres (263–722 feet), where water temperatures range from 12-25 °C (54-77 °F). In the Pacific, at latitudes between 20°N and 50°N, they are known to migrate to higher latitudes during the summer and lower latitudes during the winter. Their populations remain constant throughout the year between 20°N and 20°S latitude.\n\nThe blue shark has one of the largest ranges in terms of depths of the water. They can be found from the surface to the bottom. This type of adaption makes it easy for them to be able to find food. Blue sharks are known to migrate thousands of miles for food and for mating. This species of shark often is not found alone. Instead, they form groups based on their gender and on their size. They are often referred to as the \"Wolves of the Sea\" due to the complex levels of hierarchy that they form within their groups which highly reflects the behaviour of wolves. Due to their territorial instincts and their aggressive behaviours, divers have to be very careful around them. Many of the filmings of these sharks have been done with the divers in cages for the divers' own personal safety.\n\nThe majority of the blue shark's diet consists of invertebrates such as squid, cuttlefish, and pelagic octopus, and bony fish such as herring and sardines. They also feed on various types of sea birds, crustaceans such as lobster, crab, and shrimp, and they also feed on carrion.\n\nThey are very opportunistic when it comes to hunting. They have been known to feed on almost anything that they can find, including prey items which they can find in large numbers such as shrimp. They have been known to feed until they actually can not eat any more. Since they feed on almost anything that they can find, they have been known to feed on garbage and rubbish such as plastic and rubber tires. This can result in the shark falling ill, and even dying.\n\nBlue sharks are viviparous, with the males maturing at the age of 4-5, and females reaching maturity at the age of 5-6. The gestation period lasts from 9 to 12 months. During mating, the males have been known to bite the females, but their thick skin is believed to stop any pain. Pups are 41 to 50 cm (16 to 20 inches) long at birth, with females giving birth to 4-135 pups at a time, but the number of pups depend on the size of the female, with larger females giving birth to more pups. Blue sharks live to up to 20 years.\n\nPredators of the blue shark include the California sea lion and larger sharks such as the Shortfin mako shark, and the Great white shark.\n\nRecreationally, blue sharks are considered a sport fish, and large individuals provide a challenge for fishermen. Most commercially caught blue sharks are considered bycatch. It is estimated that 10 to 20 million are killed each year, possibly having a negative impact on world populations. The salmon, mackerel, and sardine fisheries are affected by Blue shark predation on catches, and entanglement in nets. The fins of blue sharks are sold to Asian markets and are used to make shark-fin soup.\n\nHaving been known to attack humans and boats, blue sharks are considered to be a dangerous species. Twelve unprovoked attacks and four boat attacks have been documented by the International Shark Attack File (ISAF). Three documented attacks resulted from air or sea disasters. There are several accounts where Blue sharks attacked shipwrecked sailors floating in the open ocean. The blue shark sometimes circles swimmers or divers for up to fifteen minutes or more. While not overly aggressive, it is not a timid shark, and needs to be approached with caution, especially if it has been circling, since it may attempt to bite.\n\nAlthough blue sharks are among the most abundant, widespread, and fast growing shark, they are one of the most heavily fished sharks in the world. With an estimated 10 to 20 million individuals caught and killed each year, there is concern not only about what this is doing to Blue shark populations, but also about the effect the removal of such an important predator might have on the oceanic ecosystem. Blue sharks are one of the most important species in the international shark-fin trade. However, their meat, while eaten in a few countries, is not very popular. The blue shark is listed as Near Threatened by the IUCN.\n\n\n", "id": "302866", "title": "Blue shark"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302874", "text": "Let's Kill Hitler\n\n\"Let's Kill Hitler\" is the eighth episode of the sixth series of the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". The episode was broadcast on BBC One, Space and BBC America on 27 August 2011. It is the second episode of a two-part story. The story began with \"A Good Man Goes To War\" (episode seven). It is the 778th episode. \n\nThe episode centers around River Song and the history of Amy Pond. \n", "id": "302874", "title": "Let's Kill Hitler"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302875", "text": "Romano Mattè\n\nRomano Mattè (Trento, January 17 1939) is an Italian former association football player, who coached the national teams of Mali and Indonesia.\n", "id": "302875", "title": "Romano Mattè"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302876", "text": "Citroën Jumper\n\nThe Citroën Jumper is a series of vans and minibuses produced by Citroën in two generations since 1994. It is similar to the Peugeot Boxer and the Fiat Ducato.\n", "id": "302876", "title": "Citroën Jumper"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302878", "text": "Mental breakdown\n\nMental breakdown (also known as a nervous breakdown) is a non-medical term used to describe an acute, short phase of a disorder with features of depression or anxiety.\n\nThe terms 'nervous breakdown' and 'mental breakdown' are not formally defined in a diagnostic system such as the DSM-IV or ICD-10. The terms are not often used in the scientific literature on mental illness. \n\nSpecific cases are sometimes described as a 'breakdown' only after a person cannot function in day-to-day life.\n\nCauses of such breakdowns are varied. A study found that problems with intimate relationships, such as divorce or separation, contributed to 24% of nervous breakdowns. Problems at work and school accounted for 17% of cases, and financial problems for 11%. Surveys suggest that in the United States, health problems have decreased in importance as a contributor to nervous breakdowns, as these accounted for 28% of nervous breakdowns in 1957, 12% in 1976, and only 5.6% in 1996. \n\nIn themselves, nervous breakdowns are considered a 'health problem' by most professionals.\n", "id": "302878", "title": "Mental breakdown"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302884", "text": "Javier Hernández Balcázar\n\nJavier Hernández Balcázar, nicknamed \"Chícharito\", (born 1 June 1988) is a Mexican footballer who plays as a Striker for Bayer 04 Leverkusen and the Mexico national team.\n\n141||59\n", "id": "302884", "title": "Javier Hernández Balcázar"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302886", "text": "Booster seat\n\nA booster seat is a seat cushion that is used to elevate children in cars. Children have to use booster seats so that the seat belt fits better. \nIn general most booster seats can be used for children who are between four and twelve years of age and between 40 and 59 inches (100–150 cm) tall. Children under 40 inches are usually too small to use booster seats and have to use a car seat (a child safety seat with an own seat belt system, used for children under the age of 4-6).\nMany countries have laws that require the use of booster seats. In the United States of America children under 57 inches (145 cm) and younger than 9 years old have to use a booster seat. Many European countries require a booster seat until the child is either twelve years old or 59 inches tall. There are some exceptions. In the United Kingdom for example children are allowed to ride without a booster seat when they are 53 inches tall and in Austria children who are not 59 inches tall have to use a booster seat until their 14th birthday. However booster seats are used to keep children safe, not because of a law. In general no child can ride safely in a car without booster seat when he is not 57 inches tall. It is proved that children under 57 inches who do not use a booster seat are more likely to suffer serious injuries or even death in the event of an accident. \n", "id": "302886", "title": "Booster seat"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302888", "text": "Arthur Rubinstein\n\nArthur Rubinstein (January 28, 1887 – December 20, 1982) was a Polish-American pianist. He got praise from around the world for his playing of the music of a selection of composers (many call him the greatest Chopin player of the century). \n\nRubinstein was born in Łódź, Poland to a family of Jews. He was the youngest child of the family. His father was a rich owner of a factory.\n\nAlthough his given name is Artur Rubinstein, in English-speaking countries he wanted to be known as Arthur Rubinstein. However, his United States impresario Sol Hurok wanted him to still be billed as \"Artur\", and his recordings were released in the West under both names. \n\nRubinstein learned the piano at the age of two in Warsaw, before beginning study in Berlin at the age of eight. His debut in Berlin was made in 1898 followed by a debut at Carnegie Hall in the United States in 1906.\n\nThroughout his life, Rubinstein was famous as a solo pianist, a soloist in piano concertos, and even as a chamber musician. He retired from the stage at age eighty-nine, and died in Geneva, Switzerland, on 20 December 1982, at the age of ninety-five, and his body was cremated. On the first anniversary of his death, his ashes was buried in Jerusalem – as specified in his will – in a plot now nicknamed the \"Rubinstein Forest\" overlooking the Jerusalem Forest. \n", "id": "302888", "title": "Arthur Rubinstein"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302890", "text": "U.S. Defense Department firefighters\n\nThe United States Department of Defense employs civilian firefighters. They are stationed at military bases to work as firefighters. These workers have their own uniforms and equipment. They are not a part of any military unit. They will work alongside military units if needed. Many times, they are the only firefighters at a military facility. The civilian firefighters wear special uniforms, usually a dark blue suit with a badge and with a shoulder patch indicating their firefighting organization.\n\nFirefighters go to special classes to learn firefighting skills. They earn certificates after taking the classes. One major class is called \"DoD Fire & Emergency Services Training.\" \n\n\n", "id": "302890", "title": "U.S. Defense Department firefighters"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302891", "text": "Bongo (antelope)\n\nThe Bongo (tragelaphus eurycerus) is a nocturnal antelope. It has two subspecies: the western or lowland bongo, and the eastern or mountain bongo. The western bongo is near threatened and the mountain bongo is critically endangered. Bongos eat plants. They live in forests in Africa. Kenya is the only place eastern bongos live in the wild. Like the west African giraffe, the eastern or mountain bongo is one of the most threatened animals in Africa. Bongos live in both captivity and the wild.\n\nAs bongos grow their horns appear. Both male and female bongos have horns. \n", "id": "302891", "title": "Bongo (antelope)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302892", "text": "Dyotropic reaction\n\nA dyotropic reaction is a type of chemical reaction. It is when an organic compound changes its structure. Two substituents jump from one place on the molecule to another. It is a pericyclic valence isomerization when two sigma bonds move at the same time to a new place on the same molecule. Dyotropic reactions are important in organic chemistry. They can explain how certain reactions work. Dyotropic reactions can be a useful step in making large and complicated molecules. Dyotropic reactions were first described by Manfred T. Reetz in 1971. The name \"dyotropic reaction\" comes from the Greek word \"dyo\" meaning \"two.\" \"Rearrangement\" means that the reaction changes the bonds between atoms on a single molecule.\nIn a type I reaction, two migrating groups trade their relative positions. A type II reaction involves migration to new bonding sites without positional interchange.\n\nIn type I rearrangements (Y-A-B-X conversion to X-A-B-Y), the two migrating groups are oriented trans to each other. The reaction leaves both groups on the opposite sides. The first example of a dyotropic rearrangement involving a carbon-carbon bond was reported by Cyril A. Grob and Saul Winstein. They saw the exchange of two bromine atoms in a certain steroid. \n\nIn a simple example, the two bromine atoms in 3-tert-butyl-trans-1,2-dibromohexane mutarotate by heating. In the transition state both bromine atoms connect symmetrically two both carbon atoms on opposite sides and the reaction is concerted. Chemists have also investigated stepwise mechanisms in dyotropic reactions. \n\nIn organic synthesis, an important dyotropic reaction is the conversion of 4-substituted-gamma-lactones to butyrolactones. Type I dyotropic rearrangements also occur around carbon-oxygen bonds. One example is using heat to change RRSiRC-O-SiR to RRSiRC-O-SiR. (This reaction can go in both directions depending on temperature.) Another example is the 1,2-Wittig rearrangement. Dyotropic reactions can also happen with N-O bonds or N-N bonds.\n\nType II rearrangements often involve two hydrogen atoms moving along a carbon skeleton. This reaction type can be found in certain transfer hydrogenations. An example is hydrogen transfer in syn-sesquinorbornene\ndisulfones.\n", "id": "302892", "title": "Dyotropic reaction"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302907", "text": "Diels–Alder reaction\n\nThe Diels–Alder reaction (DA) is a chemical reaction between organic compounds. The reaction causes the compounds to form a new six-sided compound. This is called a cyclohexene. A conjugated diene joins with an alkene to make the cyclohexene. This compound looks like a ring.\n\nThis reaction was discovered by Otto Diels and Kurt Alder in 1928. In 1950, they were given the Nobel Prize in Chemistry for their work on this reaction. The DA reaction is very useful as it means cyclohexenes can be made with very little energy. Cyclohexenes are used to make complex organic molecules. One of the first uses of the DA reaction was to make insecticides.\n\nThe DA reaction makes a new hexagonal ring-shaped compound. A compound with two double bonds which are one carbon atom apart from each other is joined to another compound with at least one double bond. A DA reaction can also happen if some of the atoms in the newly formed ring are not carbon. Some of the DA reactions are reversible. The reaction caused during this breaking up of the cyclic system is called the retro-Diels–Alder. These retro-Diels–Alder compounds are often seen when they are analyzed by mass spectrometry.\n\nSome chemists call the Diels–Alder reaction the 'Mona Lisa' of organic reactions. Like the simple smile on the painting, the reaction may be far more complex than chemists have so far discovered.\n\nLewis acids (AlCl, ZnCl, and others) act as catalysts to the reaction.\n\n", "id": "302907", "title": "Diels–Alder reaction"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302908", "text": "Dagestan\n\nDagestan is a federal subject of Russia in the Caucasus region. Its capital city is Makhachkala. Dagestan has a population of nearly 3 million. It is inhabited by over 30 different nationalities who speak 30 different languages. Most people of Dagestan are Muslims and belong to the Shafi`i school of Sunni Islam. \n\nDagestan takes its name from two Persian words, Dag - which means Mountain, and Stan which means - Land.\n\n\n", "id": "302908", "title": "Dagestan"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302913", "text": "Theoretical chemistry\n\nTheoretical chemistry tries to explain data from chemistry experiments. It uses mathematics and computers. Theoretical chemistry predicts what happens when atoms combine to form molecules. It also predicts chemical properties (characteristics) of molecules. An important part of theoretical chemistry is quantum chemistry. This is using quantum mechanics to understand valency (the number of bonds formed by an atom of an element). Other important parts include molecular dynamics, statistical thermodynamics and theories of electrolyte solutions, reaction networks, polymerization and catalysis. \n\nTheoretical chemists use a wide range of tools. These tools include analytical models (for example, LCAO-MOs to approximate the behaviors of electrons in molecules) and computational and numerical simulations. \n\nTheorists in chemistry create theoretical models. Then, they find things that experimental chemists can measure from those models. This helps chemists to look for data that can prove a model not true. The data helps to chose between several different or opposite models.\n\nTheorists also try to generate or modify models to fit any new data, If the data can not fit the model, chemists try to make the smallest change to the model to fit the data. In some cases, chemists throw out a model if a lot of data will not fit, over time.\n\nTheoretical chemistry uses physics to explain or predict chemical observations. In recent years, it has been mainly about quantum chemistry (the application of quantum mechanics to problems in chemistry). The main parts of theoretical chemistry are electronic structure, dynamics, and statistical mechanics. \n\nAll of these areas are used in the process of predicting chemical reactivities. Other less central research areas include the mathematical description of bulk chemistry in various phases. Theoretical chemists want to explain chemical kinetics (the pathway that molecules combine).\n\nScientists call a lot of this work \"computational chemistry\". Computational chemistry usually uses theoretical chemistry to work on industrial and practical problems. Examples of computational chemistry are projects to approximate chemical measurements such as certain types of post Hartree-Fock, Density Functional Theory, semiempirical methods (such as PM3) or force field methods. Some chemical theorists use statistical mechanics to create a link between the microscopic phenomena of the quantum world and the macroscopic bulk properties of systems.\n\n\nHistorically, researchers use theoretical chemistry to study:\n\n\n", "id": "302913", "title": "Theoretical chemistry"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302915", "text": "Pebble\n\nA pebble is a piece of rock with a particle size of 4 to 64 millimetres. They are often made of flint.\n\nPebbles are larger than granules (2 to 4 millimetres diameter) and smaller than cobbles (64 to 256 millimetres diameter). A rock made predominantly of pebbles is termed a conglomerate. Pebble tools are among the earliest known man-made artifacts, dating from the Palaeolithic period of human history.\n\nA beach composed chiefly of surface pebbles is commonly termed a shingle beach. This type of beach resists wave erosion, and has ecological niches which can provide habitat for animals and plants.\n", "id": "302915", "title": "Pebble"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302917", "text": "MESSENGER\n\nMESSENGER, MErcury Surface, Space ENvironment, GEochemistry and Ranging, was an unmanned NASA and APL spacecraft. It was orbiting and studying the planet Mercury. Its mission lasted 10 years, 8 months and 28 days.\n\nIt was launched on August 3, 2004 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. It was aboard a Boeing Delta II rocket. After launch, the probe did several fly-bys and deep space manoeuvres to gain the right trajectory and speed. \n\nIt completed 30% mapping of Mercury on January 14, 2008. MESSENGER made one more pass by Mercury in 2009, and on March 18, 2011 began to orbit Mercury. 100% mapping was completed in March 2013 and the probe continued its studies. On April 30, 2015, it crashed into Mercury. It crashed near the crater Janáček. \n", "id": "302917", "title": "MESSENGER"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302919", "text": "Compensation (psychology)\n\nIn psychology, compensation is a way people hide something that they cannot do well, by doing something else really well. They may not even be aware that they are doing it. Compensation can hide real or imagined problems and personal or physical inferiority. However it does not really solve the cause of the problem. Positive compensations may help a person overcome difficulties. But negative compensations do not, and can even make the problems worse.\nThere are two kinds of negative compensation:\n\nA well-known example of failing overcompensation, can be seen in people going through a midlife-crisis. Approaching midlife many people (especially men) lack the energy to maintain their psychological defenses, including their compensatory acts.\n\nAlfred Adler, founder of individual psychology, used the word compensation in relation inferiority feelings. In his book \"Study of Organ Inferiority and Its Physical Compensation\" (1907) he wrote if a person feels inferior (weak) then they will (usually) try to compensate for it somewhere else.\n\nAdler's reason to explore this was from his own experience. He was shy and yet he pushed himself to give lectures.\n\nAdler also \"transferred\" this idea of compensation to psychic training.\n\nNarcissistic people, by compensation theory, hide their feelings of low self-esteem by:\n\nNarcissistic children try to compensate for their jealousy and anger by fantasizing about:\n\nChristopher Lasch, an American historian and social critic wrote in his book \"The Culture of Narcissism\" (1979) that North American society in the 1970s was narcissistic. The narcissistic society:\nTherefore, it is \"fascinated\" with fame.\n\nConsumption can be an example of compensation (see study by Allison J. Pugh: \"From compensation to ‘childhood wonder’\"). Examples:\n\n", "id": "302919", "title": "Compensation (psychology)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302920", "text": "Shingle beach\n\nA shingle beach is a beach which is formed of pebbles. These beaches strongly resist erosion by waves.\n\nThis beach landform is quite common in Western Europe, because the pebbles come from the lines of flint in the chalk. Chesil Bank is an example. When the chalk erodes, the tough flint stays as pebbles.\n\nOther examples are found in Bahrain, North America and in a number of other world regions.\n\nOn the east coast of New Zealand's South Island, there are mixed shingle and sand fans amongst braided rivers. The ecosystems formed by this mix of pebbles and sand allow colonization by rare and endangered species.\n", "id": "302920", "title": "Shingle beach"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302924", "text": "Puddingstone\n\nPuddingstone is a kind of sedimentary rock. It is formed when pebbles, perhaps from a shingle beach, are cemented together by silica coming out of solution.\n\nThe rock which forms is extremely hard and resistant to wear. It is used for grindstones and building. The pebbles are usually made of flint, and both they and the matrix are made of silica.\n", "id": "302924", "title": "Puddingstone"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302927", "text": "Eponym\n\nAn eponym is a person's name that is used to name something else. This is common in science, politics and medicine.\n", "id": "302927", "title": "Eponym"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302929", "text": "Injective function\n\nIn mathematics, a injective function is a function \"f\" : \"A\" → \"B\" with the following property. For every element \"b\" in the codomain \"B\" there is maximum one element \"a\" in the domain \"A\" such that \"f\"(\"a\")=\"b\".\n\nThe term \"injection\" and the related terms \"surjection\" and \"bijection\" were introduced by Nicholas Bourbaki. In the 1930s, he and a group of other mathematicians published a series of books on modern advanced mathematics.\n\nAn injective function is often called a 1-1 function. However, a 1-1 correspondence is a bijective function (both injective and surjective). This is confusing, so be careful.\nFormally:\nThe element  formula_5  is called a pre-image of the element  formula_6  if  formula_7 . Injections have one or none pre-images for every element \"b\" in \"B\".\n\nCardinality is the \"number\" of elements in a set. The cardinality of \"A\"={X,Y,Z,W} is 4. We write #\"A\"=4. \n\nLet \"f\"(\"x\"):ℝ→ℝ be a real-valued function \"y\"=\"f\"(\"x\") of a real-valued argument \"x\". (This means both the input and output are real numbers.)\n\nExample: The linear function of a slanted line is 1-1. That is, \"y\"=\"ax\"+\"b\" where \"a\"≠0 is an injection. (It is also an surjection and thus a bijection.)\nExample: The polynomial function of third degree: \"f\"(\"x\")=\"x\" is an injection. However, the polynomial function of third degree: \"f\"(\"x\")=\"x\" –3x is not an injection.\n\nExample: The quadratic function \"f\"(\"x\") = \"x\" is not an injection. \n\nNote: One can make a non-injective function into an injective function by eliminating part of the domain. We call this restricting the domain. For example, restrict the domain of \"f\"(\"x\")=\"x\"² to non-negative numbers (positive numbers and zero). Define \nThis function is now an injection. (See also restriction of a function.)\n\nExample: The exponential function \"f\"(\"x\") = 10 is an injection. (However, it is not a surjection.)\n\nNote: The fact that an exponential function is injective can be used in calculations. \n\nExample: The logarithmic function base 10 \"f\"(\"x\"):<nowiki>(0,+∞)</nowiki>→ℝ defined by \"f\"(\"x\")=log(\"x\") or \"y\"=log(\"x\") is an injection (and a surjection). (This is the inverse function of 10.)\n\nExample: The function \"f\":ℕ→ℕ that maps every natural number \"n\" to \"2n\" is an injection. Every even number has exactly one pre-image. Every odd number has no pre-image.\n\n\n", "id": "302929", "title": "Injective function"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302930", "text": "Lorient\n\nLorient is a commune and seaport in the Morbihan department in Brittany.\n\nLorient is twinned with:\n", "id": "302930", "title": "Lorient"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302932", "text": "Bongo (disambiguation)\n\nBongo may mean:\n\nIn nature:\n\nIn geography:\n\nIn entertainment:\n\nIn vehicles:\n\nIn fiction:\n\nIn other uses:\n\n", "id": "302932", "title": "Bongo (disambiguation)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302933", "text": "Surjective function\n\nIn mathematics, a surjective or onto function is a function \"f\" : \"A\" → \"B\" with the following property. For every element \"b\" in the codomain \"B\" there is at least one element \"a\" in the domain \"A\" such that \"f\"(\"a\")=\"b\". This means that the range and codomain of \"f\" are the same set.\n\nThe term \"surjection\" and the related terms \"injection\" and \"bijection\" were introduced by the group of mathematicians that called itself . In the 1930s, this group of mathematicians published a series of books on modern advanced mathematics. The French prefix \"sur\" means \"above\" or \"onto\" and was chosen since a surjective function maps its domain on to its codomain.\n\nFormally:\nThe element formula_4 is called the image of the element formula_5. \nThe element formula_5 is called a pre-image of the element formula_4. \n\nA pre-image does not have to be unique. In the top image, both {X} and {Y} are pre-images of the element {1}. It is only important that there be at least one pre-image. (See also: Injective function, Bijective function)\nLet \"f\"(\"x\"):ℝ→ℝ be a real-valued function \"y\"=\"f\"(\"x\") of a real-valued argument \"x\". (This means both the input and output are numbers.)\nExample: The linear function of a slanted line is \"onto\". That is, \"y\"=\"ax\"+\"b\" where \"a\"≠0 is a surjection. (It is also an injection and thus a bijection.)\nExample: The cubic polynomial (of third degree) \"f\"(\"x\")=\"x\"-3\"x\" is a surjection. \n\nExample: The quadratic function \"f\"(\"x\") = \"x\" is not a surjection. There is no \"x\" such that \"x\" = −1. The range of \"x\"² is <nowiki>[0,+∞) </nowiki>, that is, the set of non-negative numbers. (Also, this function is not an injection.)\n\nNote: One can make a non-surjective function into a surjection by \"restricting\" its codomain to elements of its range. For example, the \"new\" function, \"f\"(\"x\"):ℝ → [0,+∞) where \"f\"(\"x\") = \"x\" is a surjective function. (This is not the same as the restriction of a function which restricts the domain!)\n\nExample: The exponential function \"f\"(\"x\") = 10 is not a surjection. The range of \"10\" is (0,+∞), that is, the set of positive numbers. (This function is an injection.)\n\nExample: The logarithmic function base 10 \"f\"(\"x\"):<nowiki>(0,+∞)</nowiki>→ℝ defined by \"f\"(\"x\")=log(\"x\") or \"y\"=log(\"x\") is a surjection (and an injection). (This is the inverse function of 10.)\n\n\nExample: The function \"f\"((\"x\",\"y\")):ℝ²→ℝ defined by \"z\"=\"y\" is a surjection. Its graph is a plane in 3-dimensional space. The pre-image of \"z\" is the line y=\"z\" in the \"x\"0\"y\" plane.\n\n\n", "id": "302933", "title": "Surjective function"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302936", "text": "Range (mathematics)\n\nThe range of a function is the set of elements that the function outputs. \n\nRange (statistics)\n\nmore ...\n\nRange (statistics)\nThe difference between the lowest and highest values.\n\nIn {4, 6, 9, 3, 7} the lowest value is 3, and the highest is 9, so the range is 9-3 = 6.\nRange can also mean all the output values of a function.", "id": "302936", "title": "Range (mathematics)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302938", "text": "Organic reaction\n\nOrganic reactions are chemical reactions involving organic compounds. The basic organic chemistry reaction types are addition reactions, elimination reactions, substitution reactions, pericyclic reactions, rearrangement reactions, photochemical reactions and redox reactions. In organic synthesis, organic reactions build new organic molecules. Organic reactions produce many man-made chemicals such as drugs, plastics, food additives, and fabrics.\n\n", "id": "302938", "title": "Organic reaction"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302942", "text": "Shikasta (novel)\n\nShikasta is a 1979 science fiction novel. The full title is Re: Colonised Planet 5, Shikasta. British Nobel Prize in Literature-winner Doris Lessing wrote it as the first book in her five-book \"Canopus in Argos\" series. Alfred A. Knopf published it first in the United States in October 1979. Jonathan Cape published the book in the United Kingdom in November 1979. Shikasta is also the name of the fictional planet featured in the novel. \n\nThe book has a subtitle, \"\"Personal, psychological, historical documents relating to visit by Johor (George Sherban) Emissary (Grade 9) 87th of the Period of the Last Days\"\". 'The novel is the history of the planet Shikasta under the influence of three galactic empires: Canopus, Sirius, and their shared enemy, Puttiora. The book is a series of reports by Canopean visitors to Shikasta. They record what happens on the planet which is very similar to Earth. The novel shows the Earth's prehistory, how things became worse, the \"Century of Destruction\" (the 20th-century), and the Apocalypse (World War III).\n\n\"Shikasta\" uses stories and images from the Old Testament and is influenced by spiritual and mystical themes in Sufism. Lessing had become interested in this Islamic belief system in the mid-1960s. The book was a major shift of focus in Lessing's writing, from realism to science fiction. Many of her readers were unhappy with the change. Critics gave the book both good and bad reviews. Some were impressed by the way the book showed a wide view of humanity and the universe. One reviewer called it a brave \"and disturbing work from one of the world's great living writers\". Others reviewers disliked the novel because it was depressing and humanity had no free will. People's lives were controlled by galactic empires.\n\nThe story of Shikasta is retold in the third book of the \"Canopus\" series, \"The Sirian Experiments\" (1980). In that book, the story is told from the point of view of Sirius. Shikasta appears again in the fourth book in the series, \"The Making of the Representative for Planet 8\" (1982). The Zones that are briefly mentioned in \"Shikasta\" are the subject of the second book in the series, \"The Marriages Between Zones Three, Four and Five\" (1980).\n", "id": "302942", "title": "Shikasta (novel)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302946", "text": "HOMO/LUMO\n\nHOMO stands for highest occupied molecular orbital. LUMO stands for lowest unoccupied molecular orbital. The energy difference between the HOMO and LUMO is termed the HOMO-LUMO gap. HOMO and LUMO are sometimes referred to as frontier orbitals.\n\nEach molecular orbital has a calculated energy level. Chemists sort the molecular orbitals (MOs) by energy levels. Chemists assume that the electrons will occupy the lowest energy level MOs first. For example, if a molecule has enough electrons to fill 15 MOs, the 15 MOs with the lowest energy levels will be occupied. The 15th MO on the list would be called the \"highest occupied molecular orbital\" (HOMO) and the 16th MO on the list would be the \"lowest unoccupied molecular orbital\" (LUMO). The difference in the HOMO's energy level and the LUMO's energy level is called the band gap. The band gap can sometimes serve as a measure of the excitability of the molecule: the smaller the energy, the more easily a molecule's electrons will be excited. For example, this can help predict whether a substance will have luminescence.\n\nA SOMO is a \"singly occupied molecular orbital\" such as half-filled HOMO of a radical.\n\n", "id": "302946", "title": "HOMO/LUMO"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302961", "text": "Roald Hoffmann\n\nRoald Hoffmann (born July 18, 1937) is an American theoretical chemist who won the 1981 Nobel Prize in Chemistry. He currently teaches at Cornell University in Ithaca, New York.\n", "id": "302961", "title": "Roald Hoffmann"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302964", "text": "Substituent\n\nIn organic chemistry and biochemistry, substituent is the name for a single atom or for a group of atoms that take the position of another atom in a molecule. They replace this atom. This reaction is called a substitution reaction. The atom or group of atoms that gets replaced is called the leaving group.\nThe terms substituent, side chain, group, branch, or pendant group are used in the same way to describe branches from a parent structure. These terms have different meanings in polymer chemistry. In polymers, side chains extend from a backbone structure, while they are attached to the alpha carbon atoms of the amino acid backbone in proteins. \n\nOrganic chemistry has rules for naming compounds with substituent groups. The substituent group is listed first with a suffix to describe how it is attached to the main carbon chain. The suffix -yl is used when naming organic compounds that contain a single bond replacing one hydrogen. -ylidene and -ylidyne are used for double bonds and triple bonds respectively. When naming hydrocarbons that contain a substituent, position numbers may be used. These number will indicate which carbon atom the substituent is attached to. One case where this information is needed is that of isomers.\n\nThe phrases most-substituted and least-substituted are often used to describe molecules and predict their products. For example:\n\nIn a structural diagram or formula, the letters R or X are used to represent a substituent group. An organic substituent such as methyl, ethyl, aryl can be written as R (or R, R, etc.) This is a generic placeholder. The \"R\" derived from \"radical\" or \"rest\". The R can represent as many atoms as the author wants. The first to use this symbol was Charles Frédéric Gerhardt in 1844.\n\nThe symbol X can represent electronegative substituents such as the halides.\n\n", "id": "302964", "title": "Substituent"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302970", "text": "Greater rhea\n\nThe greater rhea, \"Rhea americana\", is a flightless bird found in South America. The greater rhea is also known as grey, common rhea, or the American rhea. The species, first described by Carl Linnaeus in 1758, is found in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay, and Uruguay.\n\nThe greater rhea takes its scientific name from the Greek goddess Rhea and the Latin word for \"America\".\n\nIt has a length of and a wingspan of . Weighing , the greater rhea is the largest bird in South America.\n", "id": "302970", "title": "Greater rhea"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302974", "text": "Petr Kalandra\n\nPetr Kalandra (March 10, 1950 – September 7, 1995) was a Czech musician, guitarist, harmonica player, vocalist and songwriter. He was member of A.S.P.M., Blues Session and Marsyas. He died in September 1995. In 2006 he was inducted into the Beatová síň slávy (Beat Hall of Fame).\n", "id": "302974", "title": "Petr Kalandra"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302977", "text": "Till Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks\n\nTill Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks (German: \"Till Eulenspiegels lustige Streiche\") is a very well-known piece of music for orchestra by Richard Strauss. It is a tone poem (a piece of music which tells some kind of story). In this work, Richard Strauss describes the adventures of Till Eulenspiegel who was the character in a series of stories written in Germany many years ago. Till Eulenspiegel was a kind of folk hero. He was a naughty boy who got up to all kinds of tricks. The music is very humorous and describes his adventures.\n\nThe music is played by a large orchestra. There is a small clarinet (normally an E flat clarinet, although in Strauss's day he used a D clarinet) that describes the character of Till. Till is also represented by a French horn.\nThe music starts with the main theme, which is like saying: 'Once upon a time'. The horn plays one of Till's themes and this is taken up by the orchestra. The small clarinet is then heard, sounding like Till laughing. He rides his horse through the market and knocks lots of things off the stalls, then flirts with the girls (the first violin plays a theme which suggests love).\n\nTill gets on his horse again. Then suddenly there is a funeral march. Till has been caught and he is sentenced to death. Till pleads to be let free and tries to joke his way out of his troubles, but the executioner takes no notice. Till is taken to the gallows (small clarinet), the flutes rattle as he reaches the top. The small clarinet describes his death scream, and then he is executed (strings playing pizzicato. There is a short silence, then the music returns to the opening 'Once upon a Time' theme, but the music finishes with a little joke, as if saying that someone like Till can never be destroyed.\n", "id": "302977", "title": "Till Eulenspiegel's Merry Pranks"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302978", "text": "Beatová síň slávy\n\nBeatová síň slávy (Beat Hall of Fame or shortly BSS) is something like the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. Czech Radio Beat honors the greatest legends of Czech rock music.\n\n\n", "id": "302978", "title": "Beatová síň slávy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302981", "text": "Extranet\n\nThe extranet is a part of intranet that selected people outside the company can use.\n\n", "id": "302981", "title": "Extranet"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302983", "text": "Thomson's gazelle\n\nThe Thomson's gazelle (\"Gazella thomsonii\") is the most common gazelle in East Africa. It is a kind of small antelope. It is named after explorer Joseph Thomson and, as a result, is sometimes referred to as a \"tommie\". They can be found on ranches and farmland throughout East Africa, and survive long after other species have been killed off or migrated away.\n\nThomson's gazelles are commonly referred to as \"tommies\". Tommies stand at about half a meter (22-26 inches) tall and weigh in between 15 and 25 kilograms (35-55 pounds). Although very similar in appearance to the Grant's gazelle, they have some distinguishing features.\n\nThe tommy has adapted to drier life on the open grass plains of East Africa, mainly southern Kenya and northern Tanzania. Although tommies have many predators, including cheetahs, lions, leopards, and hyenas, they are frequently the last animals left on an abandoned ranch or farmland. \n\nTheir major predators are cheetahs, which can run faster, but gazelles can outlast them in long chases and are able to make turns more speedily. This small antelope-gazelle can run extremely fast, from , to 96 km/h (60 mph) and zigzag, a peculiarity which often saves it from predators. \n\nSometimes they are also chased by leopards, lions and hyenas, but the gazelles are faster and more agile; these predators attack especially the young or infirm individuals. They can also be devoured by crocodiles and pythons, and their fawns are sometimes the prey of eagles, jackals, and baboons. A noticeable behaviour of Thomson's gazelles is their bounding leap, known as stotting or pronking, used to startle predators and display strength.\n", "id": "302983", "title": "Thomson's gazelle"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302986", "text": "Artur Balder\n\nArtur Balder (born August 14, 1974) is a Spanish-American filmmaker and writer.\n\nArtur Balder is the author of several children books. His literature is published and internationally distributed by Random House in Spain and South America. His historical fiction sagas, published by Edhasa, are inspired by Germanic heroes like Arminius in the times of ancient Rome, or the Saxon duke Widukind, who leaded a rebellion during early Middle Ages against emperor Charlemagne. His books are translated into several languages. Among others: Dutch, Italian, French, Romanian.\n\nIn 2010 he wrote and directed the documentary about Little Spain. Balder lived at the building of the Spanish Benevolent Society for more than one year as resident artist. During this time, he discovered on 14th Street archives that could show for first time the evolution of the streets of Little Spain in Manhattan since its origins. The documentary reveals the untold history of the Spanish American presence in the New York City borough of Manhattan, and its community around 14th Street, known as Little Spain. The archive contains more than 450 photographs and 150 documents that have never been publicly displayed. They present the history of the streets of Little Spain in New York City throughout the 20th Century.\n\nThe movie is dedicated to Federico García Lorca and includes lines from his work Poet in New York.\n\n\n\n (2012).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "302986", "title": "Artur Balder"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302989", "text": "Mack Robinson (athlete)\n\nMatthew MacKenzie Robinson (July 18, 1914 – March 12, 2000) was an American track athlete. He was the older brother of professional baseball player Jackie Robinson. Robinson was born in Cairo, Georgia. He moved to Pasadena, California when he was young and lived there most of his life. He ran track in high school and college. While at Pasadena City College, he set junior college records in several events. He won a silver medal at the 1936 Summer Olympics. He came in second to Jesse Owens in the 200m. Robinson later ran for the University of Oregon. While there, he won National Collegiate Athletic Association and Amateur Athletic Union titles. He is a member of the Oregon Sports Hall of Fame. Robinson spent his later years working for the city of Pasadena as a garbage collector and mailman. He tried to stop crime in the black neighborhoods of Pasadena. Robinson died in Pasadena in 2000. Several landmarks in Pasadena honor both Jackie and Mack Robinson, including the stadium at PCC. \n", "id": "302989", "title": "Mack Robinson (athlete)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302990", "text": "Diene\n\nIn organic chemistry, a diene ( ) or diolefin ( ) is a hydrocarbon that contains two carbon pi bonds. \nConjugated dienes are functional groups, with a general formula of CH. Dienes and alkynes are functional isomers. Dienes occur occasionally in nature but are widely used in the polymer industry.\n\nDienes can be divided into three classes, depending on the relative location of the double bonds: \n\nCompounds that contain more than two double bonds are called polyenes. Polyenes and dienes, share many of their properties.\nAn important reaction for conjugated dienes is the Diels–Alder reaction. Many specialized dienes have been developed to exploit this reactivity for the synthesis of natural products, e.g. Danishefsky’s diene.\n", "id": "302990", "title": "Diene"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302991", "text": "Conjugated system\n\nIn chemistry, a conjugated system is a system of connected p-orbitals with delocalized electrons. Conjugated systems are created by several multiple bonds, each separated by single bonds. In general, conjugated systems may lower the overall energy of the molecule and increase how steady it is. They can contain lone pairs, radicals or carbenium ions. The compound may be cyclic, acyclic, linear or mixed. In most cases, the atoms in a molecule are held together by single bonds (where orbitals from adjacent atoms overlap). Molecules which have a conjugated system have unique properties different from normal compounds created by the sharing of the delocalized electrons among many atoms.\n\nConjugation is the overlap of one p-orbital with another across a sigma bond (or single bond) that is in between. (The d-orbitals of larger atoms can also contribute to a conjugated system).\n\nA conjugated system has a region of overlapping p-orbitals, bridging the single bonds that are between. They allow a delocalization of pi electrons across all the adjacent aligned p-orbitals.\nThe pi electrons do not belong to a single bond or atom, but rather to a group of atoms.\n\nThe largest conjugated systems (with the greatest number of shared electrons) are in graphite, conductive polymers, and carbon nanotubes.\n\nDifferent types of molecular structures can result in conjugation. For conjugation, all the neighboring atoms in a chain must have an available p-orbital. In many cases, conjugated systems are a series of a single bonds each followed by a double bond. Other systems exist. For example, furan (see picture) is a five-membered ring with two alternating double bonds and an oxygen in position 1. The Oxygen in furan has two lone pairs, one of which fills a p-orbital on that position. The lone pair electron makes conjugation possible on a five-membered ring. The presence of a nitrogen in the ring can be a source of pi orbitals needed for conjugation. Also, pi orbitals needed for conjugation can come from substituent groups α to the ring like: a carbonyl group (C=O), an imine group (C=N), a vinyl group (C=C), or an anion.\n\nConjugated systems are the main things that make up chromophores. Chromophores are light-absorbing parts of a molecule that can cause a compound to have a visible color. Chromophores are often present in various organic compounds and sometimes present in polymers that are colored or glow in the dark. Chromophores often consist of a series of conjugated bonds and/or ring systems, which can include C-C, C=C, C=O, or N=N bonds. Many times, chromophores have aromatic rings. \n\n\n", "id": "302991", "title": "Conjugated system"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302992", "text": "Prince Fielder\n\nPrince Semien Fielder (born May 9, 1984 in Ontario, California) is an American Major League Baseball player. He currently plays for the Texas Rangers. He debuted in the MLB for the Milwaukee Brewers on June 13, 2005 when he was called up from the minor league Nashville Sounds. He was sent back down but was called up again on August 17, 2005 where he finished the season with the Brewers and was used as a pinch-hitter. Fielder is a 3-time All Star and is also one of 26 players in the 50 home run club.\n\n", "id": "302992", "title": "Prince Fielder"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302993", "text": "Kurt Alder\n\nKurt Alder (July 10, 1902 – June 20, 1958) was a German chemist and Nobel laureate.\n\nAlder was born in the industrial area of Königshütte, Silesia (modern day Chorzów, Upper Silesia, Poland). He received his early schooling there. Alder left the area for political reasons when Königshütte became part of Poland in 1922. He studied chemistry at the University of Berlin from 1922, and later at the University of Kiel where his earned a PhD in 1926 for work supervised by Diels.\n\nIn 1930 Alder was appointed reader for chemistry at Kiel, and promoted to lecturer in 1934. In 1936 he left Kiel to join I G Farben Industrie at Leverkusen, where he worked on synthetic rubber. In 1940, he was appointed Professor of Experimental Chemistry and Chemical Technology at the University of Cologne and Director of the Institute of Chemistry there. Throughout this time and despite the many obstacles to original research in Europe at the time, he continued a systematic program of investigations of his particular interests in the synthesis of organic compounds. In all he published more than 151 papers in this field. \n\nAlder received several honorary degrees and other awards, most famously the 1950 Nobel Prize in Chemistry which he shared with his teacher Diels for their work on what is now known as the Diels–Alder reaction. The lunar crater Alder is named in his honour. The insecticide aldrin, created through a Diels–Alder reaction, is also named for him.\n\n\n", "id": "302993", "title": "Kurt Alder"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302994", "text": "Kenichi Fukui\n\nKenichi Fukui (October 4, 1918–January 9, 1998) was a Japanese chemist. He won the 1981 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.\n\nFukui was the oldest of three sons of Ryokichi Fukui, who was a merchant. He was born in Nara, Japan. \n\nHe graduated from Kyoto Imperial University in 1941. \n\nFukui worked at the Army Fuel Laboratory of Japan during World War II.{ \nIn 1943, he was appointed a lecturer in fuel chemistry at Kyoto Imperial University. \n\nHe was professor of physical chemistry at Kyoto University from 1951 to 1982.\n\nHe was president of the Kyoto Institute of Technology between 1982 and 1988. \n\nFukui shared the 1981 Nobel Prize with Roald Hoffmann. Fukui and Hoffmann worked separately on the mechanisms of chemical reactions. Fukui explained in his Nobel lecture that, \n\n\n", "id": "302994", "title": "Kenichi Fukui"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=302995", "text": "Woodward's rules\n\nWoodward's rules are a set of rules about how organic chemical compounds absorb ultraviolet light.\n\nThey give information about the wavelength of the absorption maximum (symbol λ ) in an ultraviolet-visible (UV) spectrum of a compound. The rules are named after Robert Burns Woodward. He was a Harvard University professor who won the 1965 Nobel Prize in chemistry. The rules are sometimes called the Woodward-Fieser rules, to also honor Louis Fieser. \n\nThe rules build the prediction on the type of chromophores present, the substituents on the chromophores, and changes due to the solvent. Examples are conjugated carbonyl compounds, conjugated dienes, and polyenes.\n\nOne set of Woodward-Fieser rules for dienes is shown in table one. A diene is either homoannular with both double bonds contained in one ring or heteroannular with two double bonds distributed between two rings.\n\nThese rules predict the UV absorption maximum of compounds. Here are two examples:\n\nIn the compound on the left the base value is 214 nm (a heteroannular diene). This diene group has 4 alkyl substituents (labeled 1,2,3,4) and the double bond in one ring is exocyclic to the other (adding 5 nm for an exocyclic double bond). In the compound on the right, the diene is homoannular with 4 alkyl substituents. Both double bonds in the central B ring are exocyclic with respect to rings A and C.\n", "id": "302995", "title": "Woodward's rules"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303000", "text": "Lemon shark\n\nThe Lemon shark is a shark that gets its name from its deep yellow back. Its belly is off-white. Lemon sharks are usually eight to ten feet long. They have long, sharp teeth for catching slippery fish. Lemon sharks are common on the southeast coast of the United States of America.\n\nThe Lemon shark gets its name from the fact that it is yellow in colour. The underside is usually white or a lighter yellowish colour. Besides yellow, the Lemon shark is also brown and olive grey in colour. The Lemon shark is stocky, blunt-nosed, and has two dorsal fins of similar size and shape. The first dorsal fin is low and positioned at the back of the pectoral fins, and the second dorsal is of similar shape and size and positioned at the front of the anal fin. The pelvic fin weakly concave (curving inwards) rear margins, and the pectoral fin's outer margin is slightly convex (curving outwards), and both fins are weakly falcate. The snout is round and shorter than the width of the mouth. There is no mid-dorsal ridge present on this species.\nThe upper teeth are narrow and broad with triangular smooth-edged cusps and finely serrated bases. These teeth get more oblique as they get closer to the corner of the mouth. The lower teeth are narrow and triangular with smooth-edged cusps.\nLemon shark scales are large and overlapping with 3 to 5 ridges. The middle ridge is high, sharp and separated by deep furrows, and the back margins are opposite the primary ridges. The basal plates and pedicels are broad. \nLemon sharks usually range between the lengths of 2.4 to 3 metres, and have a growth rate of 0.21 inches per year (0.54 cm per year). The maximum length that can be reached by this species is between 3.2-3.4 metres. Pups are between 24-26 inches (60-65 cm) at birth. \n\nThe Lemon shark is viviparous, meaning that they give live birth. After a gestation period of 10 to 12 months, pregnant females enter shallow nursery areas in spring and summer to give birth to litters of 4 to 17 pups. The pups have a very slow growth rate and remain within nursery grounds for quite a long time, where they are in less danger from predators. The mangroves that the young mainly inhabit are highly productive waters, creating an excellent area for feeding, but also an area of very low oxygen content. However, the Lemon shark has many adaptations that increase oxygen uptake, such as blood with an unusually high affinity for oxygen. As they grow, their range increase dramatically, from 6-8 kilometres up to around 300 kilometres. Maturity is reached at about 6 and a half years of age, and it is believed that the Lemon shark lives for up to 27 years. \n\nWhen it comes to hunting, the Lemon shark is known to be very patient. They are able to use their yellow coloring to help them successfully hide in their natural habitat. They are often found swimming along the sand of the bottom of the water so they blend in easily. This makes it easy to hide from predators and also to be able to find prey.\nIt is believed that this shark has a special set up with the retina. This enables them to be able to see very clearly even in the murky depths under the water. The Lemon Shark can be aggressive to humans, and is known to have a powerful bite. Most of the attacks that have been noted were provoked, but not all. Since Lemon sharks can blend into their surroundings so well, it is easy for someone to accidentally disrupt the shark.\nWhat is encouraging about the Lemon Shark is that they are able to do fairly well in captivity. That is not usually the case with species of sharks. Still, many experts worry that they won’t copy all they do in the wild in captivity so they don’t usually rely on such details and observations as facts if they can’t also be confirmed in the wild. They are very social, and they develop a hierarchy based on gender and size that is very complex.\nThe Lemon Shark is gentle in nature and doesn’t seem to be aggressive towards people, including divers. They have been known to bite humans but it is believed this is due to being provoked. They aren’t seen as a major threat to sharing the waters with humans. \n\nThe Lemon shark's diet consists mainly of bony fish and crustaceans. Catfish, mullet, jacks, croakers, porcupine fish, cowfish, guitarfish, stingrays, eagle rays, crabs and crayfish make up most of the Lemon shark's diet. Also, this species will eat sea birds and smaller sharks. Lemon sharks will eat until full with the rate of digestion dependent on the amount of food consumed at a single time. \n\nThe Lemon shark lives in the tropical and subtropical waters of the coastal areas of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. They stay in moderately shallow water, normally going no deeper than 80 meters (roughly 260 feet). They are often found in shallow waters near coasts and islands, by coral reefs, mangroves, bays, and sometimes even river mouths. \n\nThese sharks represent a small threat to humans. According to the International Shark Attack File, there have been only 10 unprovoked attacks by Lemon sharks, all occurring in Florida and the Caribbean. There have been no fatal attacks from this species. The Lemon shark does inhabit coastal waters which swimmers, surfers and divers commonly swim in. The low number of attacks by this species shows that it is a small threat to humans.\nThe Lemon shark is targeted by commercial and recreational fishermen along the U.S, Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean, and in the eastern Pacific Ocean. The US bottom longline fishery commonly targets this species and it is also caught as by-catch in both pelagic and gillnet fisheries. Their fins are highly prized and are exported to Asia for shark fin soup. Their skin may be used for leather and their meat is eaten by humans. There is some concern that populations in the western north Atlantic and eastern Pacific Ocean are in danger due to over-fishing. \n", "id": "303000", "title": "Lemon shark"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303001", "text": "Spined pygmy shark\n\nThe spined pygmy shark is one of the smallest sharks in the world. It is only seven to eight inches long on average. Spined pygmy sharks are dark gray or black on top. Their bellies glow in the dark. These sharks live very deep in the water (down to 6,500 feet) but they migrate up to about 650 feet at night, to hunt.\n\nSpined pygmy sharks are harmless to humans.\n", "id": "303001", "title": "Spined pygmy shark"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303002", "text": "Nurse shark\n\nThe Nurse shark (\"Ginglymostoma cirratum\") is a bottom-dwelling shark, and is the only known species in the genus Ginglymostoma. They range in length from 2.1-2.7 metres, and weigh 75-120 kg.\nNurse sharks feed on crustaceans, mollusks, sea snakes, fish, coral, and tunicates.\nThe Nurse shark is common in the coastal tropical and subtropical waters of the eastern Pacific and the Atlantic Ocean.\nNurse sharks are nocturnal, and are very sluggish and are harmless unless bothered.\n\nNurse sharks have two spineless, rounded dorsal fins, with the first dorsal fin being much larger than the second, and they have one anal fin. The first dorsal fin is located over the pelvic fins. The caudal fin is more than one quarter of the total shark's length. The sub-terminal mouth is placed well in front of the eyes, the spiracles are small, and there are long barbels on the mouth. The Nurse shark has nasoral grooves, but there is no perinasal groove.\nAdult Nurse sharks are usually light yellow to dark brown in colour. The young that are up to 60 cm (24 inches) long have small black spots, with an area of lightness surrounding each spot, covering the entire body. Young which are 70-120 cm (28-47 inches) long are capable of limited colour changes. Studies show that Nurse sharks kept out of sunlight become slightly lighter in colour compared to Nurse sharks which are exposed to sunlight. Nurse sharks with unusally colours (such as brilliant yellow or milky white) have been reported several times.\nNurse sharks have the simplest type of tooth arrangement found in sharks. This means that there is no overlapping between the teeth, and that forward movements of teeth leading to shedding does not depend on other teeth. With sharks that have many overlapping teeth, the replacement of teeth cannot take place until the outer blocking teeth are lost. Young Nurse sharks can replace their teeth quicker than adults. Also, teeth replacing occurs faster in summer, when water temperatures are higher. Averaging 2.2-2.7 metres (7.2-9 feet) in total length, and weighing 75-105 kg (165-232 pounds), adult females reach a larger size than adult males which are around 2.1-2.6 metres (7-8.5 feet) long, and weigh around 90-120 kg (198-265 pounds). Females reach maturity at about 2.3 metres (7.6 feet), and males reach maturity at about 2.1 metres (7 feet). New born Nurse sharks range in length from 28 to 30 cm (11 to 12 inches), with growth rates of 13 cm (5 inches) and 2.3 kg (5 pounds) per year. Once the Nurse sharks reach maturity, their growth rates usually become much lower. \n\nThe Nurse shark is common in the coastal tropical and subtropical waters of the eastern Pacific and the Atlantic Ocean. In the Atlantic, it ranges from Senegal to Gabon, Rhode Island to southern Brazil, and Mexico to Peru. Also, some Nurse sharks have been reported in the Gulf of Gascogne, in southwest France. This species is common in shallow waters throughout the West Indies, south Florida and the Florida Keys. \n\nThe Nurse shark is a nocturnal animal that rests on sandy bottoms or in caves or crevices in shallow waters during the day. They are usually found in groups of up to 40, as they lie very close together, sometimes even piling on one another.\nNurse sharks are very active during the night. In addition to swimming near the bottom, the Nurse shark can move around on the sea floor, using its flexible, muscular pectoral fins as limbs. Large juveniles and adults are usually found around deep coral reefs, and rocky areas at depths of up to 3-75 metres (10-246 feet) during the daytime, and then they migrate into shallower waters of less than 20 metres (66 feet) deep after darkness.\nYoung Nurse sharks up to 1.7 metres (6 feet) are usually found around shallow coral reefs, grass flats or mangrove islands in waters which are 1-4 metres (3-13 feet) deep. They often lie in groups within limestone holes or under rock ledges.\nNurse sharks have been known to repeatedly return to the same caves and crevices in which they have rested before. \n\nNurse sharks are sluggish, and aren’t aggressive towards humans and won’t attack unless they are provoked. If they are provoked they usually bite, but their bites aren't deadly. \n\nThe Nurse shark is a nocturnal predator, and hunts alone. They feed on fish (such as catfish, mullets, and pufferfish) stingrays, mollusks (such as octopuses, squids, and clams), sea snakes, and tunicates. They move very slowly as they hunt along the bottom. They also consume algae, coral, crustaceans (such as lobsters, shrimps, and crabs), sea urchins, snails and bivalves. \n\nThe Nurse shark is one of the few species of sharks that can remain motionless in the water when it wants to. This not only helps it to conserve energy, it gives the Nurse shark an advantage when it comes to hunting. As it stays motionless, it's prey usually donesn't notice it, giving the Nurse shark a chance to ambush it's prey. \n\nThe mating season occurs once every 18 months, and lasts from the end of June till the end of July. They are ovoviviparous, with the gestation period lasting 6 months. Females can give birth to 21-29 pups at a time. However, sometimes the larger pups will feed on the smaller pups. As a result, only a small number of pups from each litter will live to the age of maturity. The young are born with spots, which fade as the sharks grow older. The average lifespan in the wild for these sharks is from 25 to 30 years. \n\nAlthough the Nurse shark has no real predator, remains of Nurse sharks have been found in the stomachs of Tiger sharks, and Lemon sharks. Also, there have been reports of Bull sharks, and Great white sharks feeding on Nurse sharks. \n", "id": "303002", "title": "Nurse shark"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303003", "text": "Spiny dogfish\n\nThe spiny dogfish (\"Squalus acanthias\") is one of the most common and well known species of dogfish. It is a small species of shark, with an average length of 28-39 inches (70-100 cm), and reaching a maximum weight of 9.8 kg. \n\nThe dogfish is found in the Atlantic and Pacific Ocean, and can be found from the surface to depths as deep as 1,460 metres. The spiny dogfish is feeds mainly on pelagic fish such as herring, menhaden, capelin, sand lance, and mackerel.\n\nThe spiny dogfish has a slim, long body and a flattened head. The snout is narrow, with a pointed tip. The eyes of this species are quite large. The first dorsal fin is located about halfway between the pectoral fins and the pelvic fins. The second dorsal fin is about two-thirds the size of the first one and is located behind the pelvic fins. \n\nOn the front of each dorsal fin there is a sharp spine attatched to them, giving the spiny dogfish its name. The first spine is about half as long as the second spine. The pectoral fins form nearly perfect equilateral triangles, with rounded rear tips, and slightly concave rear margins. The pelvic fins are closer to the second dorsal fin than to the first dorsal fin. One the caudal fin, there is no notch on the upper lobe and the lower lobe is not well-developed. There is no anal fin on the Spiny dogfish. \n\nThe dorsal surface of the dogfish is slate-coloured and may have a brownish cast. There are rows of white spots along each side, from above the pectoral fins to above the pelvic fins. These spots are more visible on immature spiny dogfish, and they fade as the shark matures. With some individuals, the spots completely disappear. The edges of the dorsal fins and the caudal fin have a dusky-colour at birth, but this colour quickly fades. The ventral surface of the dogfish ranges from pale grey to pure white.\n\nThe average length of the spiny dogfish is 28-39 inches (70-100 cm), with adult males ranging from 24-35 inches (60-90 cm), and adult females ranging from 30-42 inches (76-107 cm). The maximum reported length of males is 39 inches (100 cm), and females is 49 inches (124 cm). Mature females can weigh as much as 3.2-4.5 kg (7-10 pounds), with a maximum recorded weight of 9.8 kg (22 pounds). The all-tackle game fish record is 7.14 kg (16 pounds), and was caught off the coast of Ireland in 1989. \nIn the western Atlantic, the spiny dogfish ranges from Greenland to Argentina, and in the eastern Atlantic it is found from Iceland and the Murmanski Coast (Russia) to South Africa, including the Mediterranean Sea and the Black Sea. In the western Pacific, the dogfish occurs from the Bering Sea to New Zealand, while in the eastern Pacific, this species is found from the Bering Sea to Chile. \n\nSpiny dogfish are benthopelagic, meaning that they are found just above the bottom of the ocean. They are found from the surface to depths as deep as 1,460 metres. Spiny dogfish can be found in brackish water, but prefer seawater, and are commonly found in waters with the temperature of 7-15 °C. Spiny dogfish are found inshore and offshore, over continental and insular (island) shelve, and upper slopes. They are often found in enclosed bays and estuaries. They have been reported to enter freshwater but cannot survive there for more than a few hours. \n\nSpiny dogfish have been found in the stomachs of cod, red hake, and goosefish, as well as other dogfish. Larger species of sharks, as well as seals and Killer whales also feed on the spiny dogfish. To defend itself, the dogfish curls into a bow, and strikes at predators with its spines on the dorsal fins. \n\nThe spiny dogfish usually feeds in groups. They feed mainly on pelagic fish such as herring, menhaden, capelin, sand lance, and mackerel, often consuming large numbers of them. They have been known to bite through fishing nets to be able to feed on the caught fish, usually releasing most of the fish. This has given the dogfish a bad reputation among fishermen. Other food items of this species includes molluscs (such as squid and octopus), crustacea (such as shrimp and crab), jellyfish, sea cucumber, algae, smaller sharks, and shark egg cases. \n\nThe gestation period of the spiny dogfish lasts up to 2 years. Spiny dogfish are ovoviviparous, meaning that the embryos develop inside eggs inside the female, and are nourished by yolk-filled sacs. Finally, the female gives birth to 1-20 pups, each one measuring around 20 to 33 centimeters. The spiny dogfish lives to the age of 20-75 years. \n\nThe dogfish poses little threat to humans, but if it is not handled properly, the spines on its dorsal fins can give a harmful wound. Also, the spiny dogfish has earned itself a bad reputation among fishermen due to its habit of biting through fishing nets to get at any fish which is caught in the nets. \n\nThe spiny dogfish is the most common living shark, yet two populations in the northwest and northeast Atlantic are at great risk due to overfishing. This shark is caught for food, liver oil, and is used to make sand paper, vitamins, leather, fertiliser, and pet food. Between 1900 and 1910, when the dogfish was at its peak abundance, it was estimated that up to 27 million spiny dogfish were caught off the Massachusetts coast every year. \n\nDue to their long gestation period and the low number of pups they give birth to at a time, the spiny dogfish must be managed carefully. This species is extremely vulnerable to overfishing and is currently on the brink of collapse. \n\nCommercial fishermen target mature females because they grow to larger sizes than males. The fishing of spiny dogfish increased dramatically in the U.S.A during the 1990s, resulting in the population of mature females to decrease by 75%, leading to low number of pups. In 2001, the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC) voted to extend an emergency action that closes state waters to fish for the vulnerable dogfish. This was in response to heavy fishing that devastated dogfish populations during the 1990s. \n\nIn late 2000, a fishery management plan for the spiny dogfish began to develop, followed by its approval in November 2002. Federal and state recovery plans are currently in place but are continually challenged. The National Marine Fisheries Service, with new data predicting the collapse of the spiny dogfish populations, closed federal waters to dogfish fishing in July 2003. The spiny dogfish is currently listed as Vulnerable by the IUCN. \n", "id": "303003", "title": "Spiny dogfish"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303004", "text": "Tiger beetle\n\nThe tiger beetles are a large group of beetles in the family Carabidae. About 2,600 species and subspecies are known, with the richest diversity in the Oriental (Indo-Malayan) region, followed by the Neotropics.\n\nAll tiger beetles are predators. \nThey are known for their aggressive predatory habits and running speed. The fastest species of tiger beetle can run at a speed of 9 km/h (5.6 mph), which, relative to its body length, is about 22 times the speed of an Olympic sprinter, the equivalent of a human running at . \n\nTiger beetles live everywhere in the world except the Antarctic and Tasmania. They have powerful jaws, called mandibles, which they use to hold and crush their prey. They have long legs, big eyes, and a wide head. All are colourful. Their elytra are usually bright and have bold markings.\n", "id": "303004", "title": "Tiger beetle"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303008", "text": "The Plastic People of the Universe\n\nThe Plastic People of the Universe (or shortly PPU) is a rock band from Prague, Czechoslovakia (Today Czech Republic). In 60s and 70s was frontman bass player Milan \"Mejla\" Hlavsa (*1951-†2001) and current frontman is saxophonist Vratislav Brabenec (*1943). On his \"debut\" album \"Egon Bondy's Happy Hearts Club Banned\", the group set to music poems by Egon Bondy. The band became famous when it was put in prison by the communist government.\n\n\n", "id": "303008", "title": "The Plastic People of the Universe"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303010", "text": "Vratislav Brabenec\n\nVratislav Brabenec (born April 28, 1943, Prague, Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, today Czech Republic) is a Czech musician, saxophonist, clarinetist a vocalist. He is member of Czech underground band The Plastic People of the Universe. Brabanec joined the Plastic People in 1972. He insisted that they no longer play songs by groups like the Velvet Underground. Brabenec wanted them to play their own songs and perform them in the Czech language. The band became famous in 1972 when some of the members were put in prison by the communist government. Brabenec was sent to prison for eight months because his music was \"antisocial\", he was disturbing the peace, and he his music was corrupting Czech youth.\n", "id": "303010", "title": "Vratislav Brabenec"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303011", "text": "Robert Fripp\n\nRobert Fripp (born 16 May 1946, Wimborne Minster, Dorset, England) is an English guitarist, songwriter and record producer. He was ranked 42 on \"Rolling Stone\" magazine's 2003 list of the \"100 Greatest Guitarists of All Time\". He is founder member of rock band King Crimson.\n\nFripp has been married to Toyah Willcox since 1986. His uncle was Alfie Fripp.\n", "id": "303011", "title": "Robert Fripp"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303013", "text": "Nico\n\nNico (born Christa Päffgen; 16 October 1938 – 18 July 1988) was a German singer, songwriter, actress, and Warhol Superstar. She is featured on the first album by the New York rock band The Velvet Underground, \"The Velvet Underground & Nico\".\n\nShe was born in Cologne. She grew up in Brandenburg and Berlin.\n\nShe made seven studio albums.\n\nShe died on holiday in the Spanish island of Ibiza, of a cerebral hemorrhage while riding her bicycle.\n\nNico was born Christa Päffgen. When she was 16 the photographer Herbert Tobias gave her the name Nico. Nico moved to Paris and began working for Vogue, Tempo, Vie Nuove, Mascotte Spettacolo, Camera, Elle, and other fashion magazines.\n", "id": "303013", "title": "Nico"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303015", "text": "U.S. Route 4\n\nU.S. Route 4 is a highway in the United States It travels from East Greenbush, New York, near Albany to Portsmouth, New Hampshire. It passes through the state of Vermont. It has a total length of 250 miles. Before being a US highway, Route 4 was part of several New England highways.\n", "id": "303015", "title": "U.S. Route 4"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303016", "text": "Karel Kryl\n\nKarel Kryl (April 12, 1944 Kroměříž, Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, today Czech Republic – March 3, 1994 Passau, Germany) was a Czech singer-songwriter and poet. Kryl is sometimes called a \"Básník s kytarou\" \"(poet with a guitar)\".\n\n", "id": "303016", "title": "Karel Kryl"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303018", "text": "Shoaling and schooling\n\nSchooling and shoaling is a kind of collective animal behaviour by fish.\n\nAny group of fish that stay together for social reasons is said to be shoaling, and if the shoal is swimming in the same direction together, it is schooling. About one quarter of fish shoal all their lives, and about one half of fish shoal for part of their lives.\n\nFish get many benefits from shoaling. These include defence against predators: if fish swim in schools, it is less likely any one of them will be eaten. Also, it may help a fish find food, and a mate. The school may even swim faster than a lone fish. \n\nFish generally prefer larger shoals, shoalmates of their own species, shoalmates similar in size and appearance to themselves, healthy fish, and kin (when recognized).\n\nAny shoal member which stands out in appearance may be targeted by predators. This may explain why fish prefer to shoal with individuals that resemble themselves. This is called the oddity effect.\n\nSome fish spend most of their time schooling. Tuna, herring and anchovy, spend all of their time shoaling or schooling, and become agitated if separated from the group. Others, such as Atlantic cod, school only some of the time.\n\nShoaling fish can shift into a disciplined and coordinated school, then shift back to an amorphous shoal within seconds. Such shifts are triggered by changes of activity from feeding, resting, travelling or avoiding predators.\n\nWhen schooling fish stop to feed, they break ranks and become shoals. Shoals are more vulnerable to predator attack. The shape a shoal or school takes depends on the type of fish and what the fish are doing. Schools that are travelling can form long thin lines, or squares or ovals or amoeboid shapes. Fast moving schools usually form a wedge shape, while shoals that are feeding tend to become circular.\n\nForage fish are small fish which are preyed on by larger fish, seabirds and marine mammals (Cetacea). Small fish form schools, and may swim with their mouths open to filter feed on plankton. These schools can become huge, moving along coastlines and migrating across open oceans. The shoals are concentrated fuel resources for the great marine predators.\n\nThese immense gatherings fuel the ocean food web. Most forage fish are pelagic fish, which means they form their schools in open water, and not on or near the bottom (demersal fish). The predators are keenly focused on the shoals, acutely aware of their numbers and whereabouts, and make migrations themselves, often in schools of their own, that can span thousands of miles to connect with, or stay connected with them.\n\nHerring are among the more spectacular schooling fish. They aggregate together in huge numbers. The largest schools are often formed during migrations by merging with smaller schools. “Chains” of mullet schools one hundred kilometres long have been seen migrating in the Caspian Sea. Radakov estimated herring schools in the North Atlantic can occupy up to 4.8 cubic kilometres with fish densities between 0.5 and 1.0 fish/cubic metre. That is about three billion fish in one school. These schools move along coastlines and cross the open oceans. Herring schools have very precise arrangements which allow the school to maintain relatively constant cruising speeds. Herrings have excellent hearing, and their schools react very fast to a predator. The herrings keep a certain distance from a moving scuba diver or cruising predator like a killer whale, forming a space which looks like a doughnut from a spotter plane.\n\nMany species of large predatory fish also school, including many highly migratory fish, such as tuna and some ocean going sharks. Cetaceans such as dolphins, porpoises and whales, operate in organised social groups called pods.\n\nSchooling behaviour is generally described as a trade-off between the anti-predator benefits and the costs of increased competition for food. \n\nSchooling is a classic example of 'emergence', where there are properties that are possessed by the school but not by the individual fish. Emergent properties give an evolutionary advantage to members of the school which non-members do not receive.\n\nFish are in danger of being eaten if they are separated from the school. Several anti-predator functions of fish schools have been proposed.\n\nSchooling forage fish are subject to constant attacks by predators. An example is the attacks that take place during the African sardine run. The African sardine run is a spectacular migration by millions of silvery sardines along the southern coastline of Africa. In terms of biomass, the sardine run could rival East Africa's great wildebeest migration.\n\nSardines have a short life-cycle, living only two or three years. Adult sardines, about two years old, mass on the Agulhas Bank where they spawn during spring and summer, releasing tens of thousands of eggs into the water. The adult sardines then make their way in hundreds of shoals towards the sub-tropical waters of the Indian Ocean. A larger shoal might be 7 kilometres (4 mi) long, 1.5 kilometres (1 mi) wide and 30 meters (100 ft) deep. Huge numbers of sharks, dolphins, tuna, sailfish, Cape fur seals and even killer whales congregate and follow the shoals, creating a feeding frenzy along the coastline.\n\nWhen threatened, sardines instinctively group together and create massive bait balls. Bait balls can be up to 20 meters (70 ft) in diameter. They are short lived, seldom lasting longer than 20 minutes.\n\nThe fish eggs, left behind at the Agulhas Banks, drift north west with the current into waters off the west coast, where the larvae develop into juvenile fish. When they are old enough, they aggregate into dense shoals and migrate southwards, returning to the Agulhas banks in order to restart the cycle.\n", "id": "303018", "title": "Shoaling and schooling"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303022", "text": "U.S. Route 40\n\nU.S. Route 40 is a federal highway from Park City, Utah to Atlantic City, New Jersey. It is 2,286 miles long and passes through twelve states. It used to go from Park City to Reno, Nevada and San Francisco, California, but that route is now part of Interstate 80. Much of the eastern part of U.S. Route 40, from Vandalia, Illinois to Cumberland, Maryland (or from St. Louis, Missouri to Baltimore) was part of the National Road. This part has been around since 1839. Part of U.S. Route 40 was also called the \"Lincoln Highway\".\n\nU.S. Route 40 passes or passed through many cities. Some of these are:\n\nThe current capitals are Denver, Topeka, Indianapolis, and Columbus. Vandalia was a former capital of Illinois, Zanesville was a former capital of Ohio, and Wheeling was a former capital of West Virginia. \n", "id": "303022", "title": "U.S. Route 40"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303023", "text": "Physical chemistry\n\nPhysical chemistry uses physics to study chemical systems. It studies them at macroscopic, atomic, subatomic, and particulate levels. It looks at concepts like motion, energy, force, time, thermodynamics, quantum chemistry, statistical mechanics and dynamics.\n\nPhysical chemistry is not the same as chemical physics. Physical chemistry is mostly a macroscopic or supra-molecular science. The majority of physical chemistry concepts relate to bulk properties rather than to molecular/atomic structure alone. These include chemical equilibrium and colloids.\n\nSome of the relationships that physical chemistry tries to resolve include the effects of:\n\nThe term \"physical chemistry\" was first used by Mikhail Lomonosov in 1752. He presented a lecture course with the title \"A Course in True Physical Chemistry\" (Russian: «Курс истинной физической химии») to the students of Petersburg University. \n\nModern physical chemistry was developed in the 1860s to 1880s with work on chemical thermodynamics, electrolytes in solutions, chemical kinetics and other subjects. In 1876, Josiah Willard Gibbs wrote an article called, \"On the Equilibrium of Heterogeneous Substances\". This paper introduced many of the main parts of physical chemistry, such as Gibbs energy, chemical potentials, Gibbs phase rule. Other important discoveries include Heike Kamerlingh Onnes' work on enthalpy and macromolecular processes. \n\nThe first scientific journal about physical chemistry was the German journal, \"Zeitschrift für Physikalische Chemie\". It was founded in 1887 by Wilhelm Ostwald and Jacobus Henricus van 't Hoff. The two chemists and Svante August Arrhenius were the leading men in physical chemistry in the late 19th century and early 20th century. All three were awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry.\n\nImportant discoveries were made in the 20th century. These include applying statistical mechanics to chemical systems and Irving Langmuir's work on colloids and surface chemistry. In the 1930's, Linus Pauling and others applied quantum mechanics to develop quantum chemistry. Chemical theories have grown with new experimental discoveries. New forms of spectroscopy started in the 20th century including: infrared spectroscopy, microwave spectroscopy, EPR spectroscopy and NMR spectroscopy.\n\nPhysical chemistry also improved with discoveries in nuclear chemistry, especially in isotope separation. This happened around the time before and during World War II. Chemists discovered important facts in astrochemistry.\n\nThese journals cover physical chemistry:\n\nA historical journal that covered both chemistry and physics was Annales de chimie et de physique. It started in 1789 and was published under the name given here from 1815–1914.\n\n", "id": "303023", "title": "Physical chemistry"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303027", "text": "Mojo Blues Band\n\nThe Mojo Blues Band is a blues band from Austria which was formed in 1977 by guitarist Eric Trauner and pianist Joachim Palden. The name of the band is derivated from \"mojo\", a talisman in the voodoo cult.\n\nThe founders of the band played before 1977 in clubs of Vienna. In 1977 Palden won a boogie woogie contest. The first prize was a record contract. They decided to form a band, which they named \"Mojo Blues Band\". The line up was:\nBeing the only blues band in Vienna they were often booked as backing band for blues artists who were touring in Austria. They played for example with Johnny Shines, J. B. Hutto, Charlie Musselwhite, Louisiana Red, Sunnyland Slim, Champion Jack Dupree, Homesick James, Honeyboy Edwards, Leon Thomas, Katie Webster, Hal Singer, Jan Harrington and Eddie Clearwater. They also played together with Axel Zwingenberger. This is documented on CDs.\n\nIn 1980 they teamed with Dana Gillespie and changed their style more to Rhythm ´n Blues. At the early 1990s their song Alligator Walk became a hit in the US Shag 8 a special dance) scene. Following this they toured North- and South Carolina. 1989 they visited Chicago and came back with 16 hours material they have recorded with musicians from Chicago. The CD \"The Wild Taste of Chicago\" was made out of this tapes. 1993 Christian Dozzler left the band to form his own group. So Eric Trauner had to learn playing the harp.\n\n2001 the band played her last concert consisting of:\nPeter Müller founded the label Styx Records. But soon Trauner formed the band again. Members are:\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "303027", "title": "Mojo Blues Band"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303033", "text": "Ozone depletion\n\nOzone is a gas that is present in the ozone layer in the stratosphere of the Earth. There, it will absorb almost all ultraviolet light which is harmful to many organisms. The term Ozone depletion can refer to a number of distinct, but related phenomena:\n\nThe details of polar ozone hole formation differ from that of mid-latitude thinning, but the most important process in both is catalytic destruction of ozone by atomic halogens. The main source of these halogen atoms in the stratosphere is photodissociation of man-made halocarbon refrigerants (CFCs, freons, halons.) These compounds are transported into the stratosphere after being emitted at the surface.\nBoth types of ozone depletion were observed to increase as emissions of Halocarbons increased.\n\nCFCs and other substances contributing to this effect are referred to as ozone-depleting substances (ODS). Since the ozone layer prevents most harmful UVB wavelengths (280–315 nm) of ultraviolet light (UV light) from passing through the Earth's atmosphere, observed and projected decreases in ozone have generated worldwide concern. As a result, the Montreal Protocol has been adopted. The treaty bans the production of CFCs, halons as and other ozone-depleting chemicals such as carbon tetrachloride and trichloroethane. The biological consequences of this change in ozone levels may include an increases in skin cancer, cataracts, damage to plants, and the reduction of plankton populations in the ocean.\n\nEstimates of how quickly the ozone layer will regenerate vary by about two decades. NASA estimated in 2006, that it wil take to 2068 for the ozone layer in Antarctica to recover to the level before human-induced thinning. According to the World Meteorological Organization, the state of the ozone layer over Antarctica will not change noticeably in the next twenty years. The state before 1980 will be reached between 2060 and 2075, 25 years later than predicted in 2002. Over the Arctic, there will be bigger losses in ozone over the next fifteen years, esp. in cold winters. For the Arctic regions, the state before 1980 will be reached around 2050.\n", "id": "303033", "title": "Ozone depletion"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303034", "text": "Photodissociation\n\nPhotodissociation, photolysis, or photodecomposition is a chemical reaction in which a chemical compound is broken down by photons. One or more photons interact with the target molecule.\n\nPhotodissociation is not limited to visible light. Any photon with sufficient energy can affect the chemical bonds of a chemical compound. Since a photon's energy is inversely proportional to its wavelength, electromagnetic waves with the energy of visible light or higher, such as ultraviolet light, x-rays and gamma rays are usually involved in such reactions.\n\nOne example where this is used is the Light-dependent reaction of photosynthesis.\n", "id": "303034", "title": "Photodissociation"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303038", "text": "Audi Cup 2011\n\nThe Audi Cup 2011 (the second edition of the Audi Cup) was a two-day tournament that took place in Munich, Germany. The tournament featured four teams, AC Milan, S.C. Internacional, FC Bayern Munich and FC Barcelona. The winners of the tournament were FC Barcelona, defeating Bayern Munich 2-0. S.C. Internacional took third place, defeating AC Milan 2(2) - 2(0).\n", "id": "303038", "title": "Audi Cup 2011"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303041", "text": "UEFA Euro 2008\n\nThe 2008 UEFA European Football Championship (or the Euro 2008) was the 13th UEFA European Championships. It was hosted by Austria and Switzerland during June 7 and June 29, 2008. The winners were Spain, defeating Germany 1-0. Spain was also the first team since Germany in 1996, to win undefeated.\n\nGreece, the UEFA Euro 2004 champions, recorded the worst finish in the UEFA Euro 2008. They got the least amount of money, and no points for the Group Stage.\n\n\nThe teams that qualified were:\n\n", "id": "303041", "title": "UEFA Euro 2008"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303045", "text": "Juanes\n\nJuan Esteban Aristizábal Vásquez (born 9 August 1972), known as Juanes, is a one-time Grammy Award-winning and nineteen-time Latin Grammy Award-winning Colombian singer, songwriter, instrumentalist, record producer. He was a member of heavy metal band Ekhymosis and is now a solo artist. Juanes has sold more than 15 million albums worldwide. \n\nRaised in Medellín, Colombia, Juanes began playing guitar at age seven.\n\n\n\n", "id": "303045", "title": "Juanes"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303047", "text": "Vector calculus\n\nVector calculus is a branch of mathematics that investigates vector fields and how they change over time. Vector calculus usually studies two- or three-dimensional vector fields, but can be used in higher dimensions, too. It is a part of the study of multivariable calculus. Vector calculus is useful in physics and engineering because of how it can look at \"electromagnetic\" and \"gravitational\" fields.\n", "id": "303047", "title": "Vector calculus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303048", "text": "Vector field\n\nA vector field is an arrangement of vectors over an area. They can exist in any dimension. Vector fields are useful for describing things that we cannot see, such as magnetic attraction and gravity. Vector calculus is the study of vector fields\n", "id": "303048", "title": "Vector field"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303049", "text": "Multivariable calculus\n\nMultivariable calculus is the extension of regular, one-dimensional calculus to more than one dimension. Most of the concepts from calculus still work in more than one dimension. Special multivariable uses include \"partial dervatives\", or differentiation with only one dimension at a time, and \"multiple integration\", or integrating over more than one dimension.\n", "id": "303049", "title": "Multivariable calculus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303057", "text": "Hockenheim\n\nHockenheim is a German town in northwest Baden-Württemberg, about 20 km south of Mannheim. It is in the Upper Rhine valley on the tourist routes of the \"Baden Asparagus Route\" () and the \"Bertha Benz Memorial Route\". The town is known for it's motor racing circuit, the Hockenheimring.\n\nHockenheim is one of the six largest towns in the Rhein-Neckar-Kreis district. Since 1999, the population has exceeded the 20,000, and Hockenheim received the status of a regional central town () in 2001.\n\nHockenheim is in the Upper Rhine valley. It is on an old trade route that ran from Frankfurt to Basel. The river Kraichbach flows through the town, and divides Hockenheim in an eastern and a western area. Hockenheim covers 34.84 km². About 28.2 percent is used for settlement and transportation. About 47.5 percent is used for agriculture. About 2.3 percent of the area are waterways, and 21.1 percent are forests.\n\nThe town is divided into two large natural areas. The \"Rheinaue\" to the west and the \"Niederterrasse\" to the east. The \"Hockenheimer Rheinbogen\" is an area of the Rhine. 656 hectares of the area is a nature conservation.\n\nThe central urban area forms one unit. It is divided into five districts for statistical reasons.\n\nIn 1984, an old brick kiln was found during an excavation in Hockenheim. The kiln had stamped bricks inside it from the Roman Empire. The Roman Legio XIV Gemina was near Mainz from 71 AD until 92 AD. The bricks indicate an early settlement in the Hockenheim area.\n\nHockenheim was first mentioned 769 as \"Ochinheim\" in a document of the Lorsch Codex (a list of early monastery gifts). The name \"Hockenheim\" was first used in official documents in 1238. During the Middle Ages, Hockenheim was owned by several local authorities.\nIn the 17th century, Hockenheim was severely destroyed twice by French troops. In 1644 during the Thirty Years' War, and in 1674 during the Franco-Dutch War. Tobacco was brought to the area by the French. During this time, the growing of hops started to be replaced with tobacco. In 1803 Hockenheim was merged into Baden. The tobacco crop grew well and prospered, and Hockenheim was awarded town rights on 22 July 1895.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, asparagus growing replaced most of the remaining hops growing. On 29 May 1932 the Hockenheimring opened with a motorcycle race. In January 1973, Hockenheim was assigned to the new Rhein-Neckar-Kreis (district).\n\nThe town is led by the Lord Mayor (). The Lord Mayer is elected every 8 years by the population. This office has been held by Dieter Gummer (SPD) since 2004. The local council of Hockenheim consists of 22 members, and the Lord Mayor presiding the council.\n\nIn 1975 the Hockenheim government agreed upon a municipal association () with the neighboring villages Altlußheim, Neulußheim and Reilingen.\n\nAdopted in 1609, the coat of arms of Hockenheim has diagonally crossed silver hooks in a sign, below a crowned golden lion. The lion is the animal of the Electorate of the Palatinate, to which Hockenheim belonged; the hooks are probably derived from the place name. The form of the symbols was changed several times, but has been specified in its current form by municipal law since 1895.\n\nThe Hockenheimring, a motor racing course built in 1932. It has become on of the two home circuits of the Formula One German Grand Prix (the other is the Nürburgring). It has hosted this F1 event over 30 times since 1970.\nA museum for tobacco cultivation (growing) was founded in 1984. It was the first of its kind in Baden-Württemberg. The motorsport museum opened near the Hockenheimring in 1986 with over 200 historical motorcycles and engines. The was created in 1991 to host the State Horticultural Show. With an area of 16 ha, Hockenheim's largest park.\n\nThe town's water tower was built in 1910 in Art Nouveau. It is the landmark of the town. Other historic buildings include the Protestant town church, a 1906 Neo-baroque building by architect Hermann Behaghel, and the 1910 Catholic church, done in Art Nouveau with a high tower, by Johannes Schroth. The old Catholic church (1817), with a late Gothic choir tower in classical hall construction, serves as a community center today.\n\nHockenheim is twinned with:\n\n", "id": "303057", "title": "Hockenheim"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303060", "text": "PFC CSKA Moscow\n\nPFC CSKA Moscow (Russian: Профессиональный футбольный клуб - ЦСКА, or English: Professional Football Club — Central Sports Club of Army [Moscow]) is a Russian football club from the capital city of Moscow. The team was more successful during the Soviet Union. Their biggest rival is Spartak Moscow. But PFC CSKA Moscow has the most fans. PFC CSKA Moscow was also the first Russian team to win the UEFA Cup (UEFA Europa League).\n\n1911-1922 - \"Общество Любителей Лыжного Спорта (English: Amateur Society of Skiing Sports)\"\n\n1923 - \"Russian: Опытно-Показательная Площадка Всеобуча) (English: Experimental & Demonstrational Playground of Military Education Association)\"\n\n1924-1927 - \"Опытно-Показательная Площадка Военведа (English: Experimental & Demonstrational Playground of Military Administration)\"\n\n1928-1950 - \"Спортивный Клуб Центрального Дома Красной Армии (English: Sports Club of Central House of the Red Army)\"\n\n1951-1956 - \"Спортивный Клуб Центрального Дома Советской Армии (English: Sports Club of Central House of the Soviet Army)\"\n\n1957-1959 - \"Центральный Спортивный Клуб Министерства Обороны (English: Central Sports Club of the Ministry of Defense)\"\n\n1960–Present — \"Центральный Спортивный Клуб Армии (English: Central Sports Club of Army)\"\n\n2011–12 PFC CSKA Moscow season\n", "id": "303060", "title": "PFC CSKA Moscow"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303068", "text": "Leopard seal\n\nThe Leopard seal (\"Hydrurga leptonyx\") is the second largest species of seal in the Antarctic (after the Southern Elephant Seal). It is most common in the southern hemisphere along the coast of Antarctica and on most sub-Antarctic islands, but can also be found on the coasts of southern Australia, Tasmania, South Africa, New Zealand, Lord Howe Island, Tierra del Fuego, the Cook Islands, and the Atlantic coast of South America. It can live twenty-six years, possibly more. Orcas and large sharks are the only natural predators of leopard seals. They eat Crabeater seals, consuming 80% of their young. They are large and strong. They have a dark grey back and a light grey stomach. Its neck is a little bit white with black spots, which is the pattern of a leopard's coat. That is how it got its name. It eats fish, squid, krill and many other sea creatures\n", "id": "303068", "title": "Leopard seal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303072", "text": "Thiago Alcántara\n\nThiago Alcántara do Nascimento (born 11 April 1991 in Bari, Italy) is an Italian-born Spanish footballer, that currently plays for FC Barcelona. He also made the most goals in the Audi Cup 2011, making all two winning goals against Bayern Munich, and a goal against Internacional.\n\nHis dad is former Brazilian player Mazinho, his mom was a former volleyball player, and his younger brother plays for FC Barcelona B.\n", "id": "303072", "title": "Thiago Alcántara"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303075", "text": "Loudoun County, Virginia\n\nLoudoun County ( ) is a county in the Commonwealth of Virginia. It is part of the Washington Metropolitan Area. The 2010 U.S. Census said 312,311 people live there. The number of people grew 84 percent over the 2000 census of 169,599. Its county seat is Leesburg.\n\nAs of 2007, Loudoun County has the highest median household income of any county in the United States ($107,207). This is higher than nearby Fairfax County, Virginia ($105,241).\n", "id": "303075", "title": "Loudoun County, Virginia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303077", "text": "F.C. Saturn Ramenskoye\n\nFC Saturn Ramenskoye (, or English: State-Owned Enterprise of the Moscow Region Football Club Saturn Moscow Region) is a Russian football team near the Moscow area of Ramenskoye. It was also known as FC Saturn Moscow Region. In 2006, the club broke the record for the most draws in a Russian Premier League season, 16 draws. The club closed down in 2011, as there were bad financial problems. However, it was revived on the base of their former farm club FC Saturn-2 Moscow Region.\n\nThe club's past names were Krylya Sovetov (1946-1957), Trud (1958-1959) and Saturn Ren-Tv (2002-2004). \n", "id": "303077", "title": "F.C. Saturn Ramenskoye"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303079", "text": "F.C. Rubin Kazan\n\nFC Rubin Kazan (Russian: Футбольный клуб Рубин Казань, Tatar: Рубин Казан футбол клубы, or English: \"A Ruby\") is a Russian football team from Kazan. Rubin only won the Russian Premier League in 2008 and 2009.\n\nRubin was previously called Iskra (1958 - 1964) and Rubin-TAN (1992 - 1993).\n\nRubin never played in the Soviet Top League, but went to the Russian First Division in 1992, and then went to Russian Second Division in 1994. The mayor of that time, purchased the team, and the on the same year Rubin won the Second Division in 1997. Rubin then went back to Russian First Division and the games went on until Rubin was promoted to the Russian Premier League in 2003.\n", "id": "303079", "title": "F.C. Rubin Kazan"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303080", "text": "PFC CSKA Sofia\n\nPFC CSKA Sofia (), commonly known as CSKA or CSKA Sofia, is a Bulgarian football team from Sofia, Bulgaria. Since CSKA Sofia was created, the club has won 31 A PFG titles, more than any team in Bulgaria, ever. Also, CSKA Sofia has reached two European Cup semi-finals, four European Cup quarter-finals and one Cup Winners' Cup semi-final, making the team the best in Bulgaria.\n", "id": "303080", "title": "PFC CSKA Sofia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303084", "text": "First Professional Football League (Bulgaria)\n\nThe First Professional Football League (), known in short as Parva Liga (), is the top-level league of men's association football in Bulgaria. The league was founded in 1924 as the Bulgarian State Football Championship, and was later known by several other names, most recently Bulgarian A Professional Football Group from 2003 to 2016. The current name was adopted for the 2016–17 season.\n\nThe current champions are Ludogorets Razgred, who have won the last five titles (2012 to 2016).\n", "id": "303084", "title": "First Professional Football League (Bulgaria)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303085", "text": "Luzhniki Stadium\n\nThe Grand Sports Arena of the Luzhniki Olympic Complex (, also known as Luzhniki Stadium) is the biggest sports stadium in Russia. The stadium is in Moscow.\n", "id": "303085", "title": "Luzhniki Stadium"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303086", "text": "2018 FIFA World Cup\n\nThe 2018 FIFA World Cup will be the 21st FIFA World Cup, which is a football tournament every four years by men's national teams of FIFA members. The tournament will take place in Russia from 14 June to 15 July 2018, after the country was awarded the hosting rights on 2 December 2010. This is the first World Cup taking place in Eastern Europe. \n\nThe winners will qualify for the 2021 FIFA Confederations Cup.\n\nRussia automatically qualifies because they are the host country, but the other qualification process has not been announced yet. All teams are allowed to join whenever they want.\n\n", "id": "303086", "title": "2018 FIFA World Cup"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303088", "text": "2022 FIFA World Cup\n\nThe 2022 FIFA World Cup is the 22nd FIFA World Cup that will be hosted in Qatar. In May 2011, FIFA officials were accused of being corrupt during the bidding process, and the event raised questions. Some believed that Qatar got the World Cup through bribes from Mohammed bin Hammam who was the Asian Federation Confederation president. Qatar denied all of the rumors. In May 2014, Sepp Blatter admitted that giving the FIFA World Cup to Qatar was a mistake. \n\nQatar automatically qualifies, but the other qualification process has not been announced yet. All teams are allowed to join when ever they want.\n\nCurrently, only three stadiums are close to being done (but they are going to be expanded):\n\n", "id": "303088", "title": "2022 FIFA World Cup"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303089", "text": "Elze\n\nElze is a town in district of Hildesheim, in Lower Saxony, Germany. It is next to the river Leine, approximately 15 km (9.3 miles) west of Hildesheim. Elze is also one oldest city in the area, and its name comes from Latin : \"aula caesaris\"\n\n\n", "id": "303089", "title": "Elze"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303090", "text": "F.C. Spartak Moscow\n\nFC Spartak Moscow (Russian: Футбольный клуб Спартак Москва) is a Russian football club from Moscow. The club is the most successful in Russia, winning 9 or 19 of the Russian Premier League championships. The team used to be part of the Spartak Moscow sports society, but left and declared to be an independent organization. Their biggest rival is PFC CSKA Moscow.\n", "id": "303090", "title": "F.C. Spartak Moscow"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303092", "text": "Ramenskoye\n\nRamenskoye is a city in Moscow Oblast, and was home to the football club Saturn Moscow Oblast. About 82,074 people lived there as of 2002.\n", "id": "303092", "title": "Ramenskoye"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303095", "text": "Kreayshawn\n\nNatassia Gail Zolot (born September 24, 1989 in San Francisco, California), known by her stage name, Kreayshawn, is an American rapper, editor and music video director. She has directed videos for rapper Lil B and is also a member of the group White Girl Mob. She is known for the song \"Gucci Gucci\" which gained three million YouTube views in just three weeks. She is currently signed to Columbia Records. She is set to direct the music video for \"The Adventures of Rain Dance Maggie\" which is the first song by Red Hot Chili Peppers on their album, I'm with You. She is nominated for \"Best New Artist\" at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.\n\nKreayshawn has released 2 albums:\n", "id": "303095", "title": "Kreayshawn"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303100", "text": "Rostislav Olesz\n\nRostislav Olesz (born October 10, 1985 in Ostrava, Czechoslovakia) is a professional Czech ice hockey left winger and center. He currently plays for SC Bern of the National League A (NLA). \n\nHe was drafted by the Florida Panthers with the 7th overall pick in the 2004 NHL Entry Draft. He also played in the NHL for the Florida Panthers for 6 seasons. He was traded by the Florida Panthers to the Chicago Blackhawks for defenceman Brian Campbell on June 24, 2011.\n\nHe played 6 games with the Blackhawks and played a season with their AHL farm team, the Rockford IceHogs. On July 5, 2013, Olesz signed a 1 year deal with the New Jersey Devils. On November 21, 2013, he signed a contract with SC Bern of the NLA.\n", "id": "303100", "title": "Rostislav Olesz"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303103", "text": "Jamal Mayers\n\nJamal Mayers (born October 24, 1974 in Toronto, Ontario) is a Canadian retired professional ice hockey right winger. He played a total of 15 seasons in the NHL. He currently works as an analyst for the NHL Network.\n\nHe was drafted with the 89th overall by the St. Louis Blues in the 1993 NHL Entry Draft. He made his NHL debut with the Blues during 1998-99 NHL season. He went on to play 10 seasons with the St. Louis Blues before he was traded to the Toronto Maple Leafs in exchange for a 3rd round pick in the 2008 NHL Entry Draft. \n\nHe played 2 seasons with the Maple Leafs before being traded to the Calgary Flames along with Matt Stajan, Niklas Hagman and Ian White in exchange for Dion Phaneuf, Fredrik Sjöström and prospect Keith Aulie. At the end of the 2009-10 he signed a one year contract with the San Jose Sharks. \n\nHe was not resigned by the Sharks for the 2011-2012 season and he signed a one year contract with the Chicago Blackhawks on July 1, 2011. On June 24, 2013, He won the Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.\n\nOn December 13, 2013, he announced that he was retiring from the National Hockey League.\n", "id": "303103", "title": "Jamal Mayers"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303105", "text": "27 Club\n\nThe 27 club is the name given to a group of musicians who died at age 27. The members or number of members of this group is not fixed.\n", "id": "303105", "title": "27 Club"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303108", "text": "Ophiotaurus\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Ophiotaurus was a creature that was part bull and part serpent. Ovid's poem, \"Fasti\" (3.793 \"ff\") is the only work where it is mentioned. There, it is said that when the creature's entrails were burnt, the person to do so could defeat the gods.\n\nThe Ophiotaurus appears in the third book in the \"Percy Jackson & the Olympians\" series, The Titan's Curse. Percy Jackson first thinks it is a female and names it \"Bessie\". It reappears in Battle of the Labyrinth and The Last Olympian.\n\n", "id": "303108", "title": "Ophiotaurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303110", "text": "From First to Last\n\nFrom First to Last (formerly named First Too Last) was an American post-hardcore band from Los Angeles, originally from Georgia and Florida.\n\nThe band formed in 1999 under the name First too Last. In 2004, 15 year old Sonny Moore joined the band. The first album, \"Dear Diary, My Teen Angst Has a Bodycount\", was released on June 29, 2004. \"Heroine\", the band's second album, was recorded in 2005 with Limp Bizkit guitarist Was Borland on the bass. Heroine was released on March 21, 2006. Moore left the band in early 2007 and guitarist Matt Good took over the lead vocals. In 2008, the band released their third album, named \"From First to Last\", with Interscope Records.\n\nGuitarist–screamer Travis Richter left the band in 2009, becoming lead vocalist in the metalcore band The Human Abstract in 2010. In March 16, 2010, the band released their fourth album, \"Throne to the Wolves\", with guitarist Blake Steiner and label Rise.\n\nThe band was disbanded on July 29, 2010. Currently, Matt Good is a guitarist in the band Destroy Rebuild Until God Shows.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "303110", "title": "From First to Last"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303112", "text": "Falling in Reverse\n\nFalling in Reverse is a post-hardcore band formed in 2008 at Las Vegas, Nevada by Ronnie Radke, the former lead singer of Escape the Fate.\n\nThe band formed in December 2008, by Ronnie Radke with the aid of Nason Schoeffler , under the name \"From Behind These Walls\". This name was changed in August of 2009 due to copyright problems. In 2009, Radke released the demos \"Listen Up\", \"The Worst Time\", and \"The Departure\", which in fact were not recorded by the band, but rather Radke himself alone in 2002.\n\nIn December 12, 2010, Ronnie Radke was released from prison. Several months after his release, Radke and the rest of the band began to record their album. The album was quickly finished by February of 2011. \n\nFalling In Released two single to promote their album. The first single, \"Raised by Wolves\", was released July 7, 2011. \"The Drug in Me Is You\" was released shortly after on July 27. The full-length album was released July 26, 2011, named \"The Drug in Me Is You\", with Epitaph Records.\n\nThe band participated in the 'Warped Tour 2011', from August 10 to August 14.\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "303112", "title": "Falling in Reverse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303113", "text": "Ronnie Radke\n\nRonald Joseph Radke (born December 15, 1983 in Las Vegas, Nevada) is an American singer. He was the founder and singer in the band Escape the Fate from 2004 to 2008. As of december 2008, he is the founder and singer in the band Falling in Reverse.\n\nRonald Joseph Radke was born on December 15, 1983 at Saint Rows Hospital, Las Vegas, Nevada. He has Native American ancestry. His mother left him at a very young age. He later met her. She was a dog groomer but she later left his life and was an addict. He was raised by his father who also had a drug problem but later became a born again Christian and became sober and soon became a president of a motorcycle club. Growing up, Radke was very poor. In high school, focusing was a struggle for Radke as he often wore girls' jeans with his friend Mich because of the skateboarders he liked and he can still ride to this day. Ronald said he got them mostly from girls' houses. In high school, he was bullied by the kids for his unique style of wearing tight clothes and very small shirts but he often got along with some because of his interest in rapping. Radke dropped out of high school twice.\n\nRadke started forming bands in his high school years. His first band was 3.0. The logo of this band was made in paint program and resembled the Ninja Turtles logo. His second band named Lefty (with Robert Ortiz) competed in the high school talent contest. When on stage and Radke's microphone fell, Max Green (who was in a band called Almost Heroes at the time) picked it up for him and they almost instantly became friends. Together, they formed a band called True Story. They got out of the pop punk scene and got into Trice and similar bands. He started playing piano and guitar. He played left-handed guitar, but still played a normal right-handed guitar when he played Blink 182 songs. At age 21, Radke founded with Max Green the band Escape the Fate. He made two albums with the band and two albums EP. The more popular was \"Dying Is Your Latest Fashion\",it was released September 26, 2006. In late 2008 Radke left Escape the Fate. Radke is now founded the band Falling in Reverse and continues to make music. Now he has several lead singles from the album \"The Drug In Me is You\".\n\nWith Escape the Fate\n\nWith Falling in Reverse\n\n", "id": "303113", "title": "Ronnie Radke"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303116", "text": "Park City, Utah\n\nPark City is a city in Utah in the United States. It was settled by Mormons in the 1840s and 1850s. There was a lot of mining there in the 1860s. Today, it is a ski resort. It has a population of 7,731 and is at an elevation of 7,000 feet. It is where the Sundance Film Festival takes place. Some of the events of the 2002 Winter Olympics were held in or near Park City.\n", "id": "303116", "title": "Park City, Utah"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303118", "text": "Alexis Mérodack-Jeanneau\n\nAlexis Mérodack-Jeanneau (1873–1919) was a French painter from Angers. He was born in Angers in 1873, and died there in 1919. He is associated with the Fauvist movement.\n", "id": "303118", "title": "Alexis Mérodack-Jeanneau"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303120", "text": "Alesana\n\nAlesana (pronounced Alice-Anna) is a emo band formed in Raleigh, North Carolina, in the year 2004.\n\nIn June 2005, the band released the first EP, \"Try This with Your Eyes Closed\", with Tragic Hero Records. In June 6, 2006, Alesana released the first album, \"On Frail Wings of Vanity and Wax\", this album was reissued on Fearless Records in 2008, next to the first EP. In 2007, the band released the video to the song \"Ambrosia\".\n\nIn June 3, 2008, with Fearless, the band released the album \"Where Myth Fades to Legend\". The third studio album, \"The Emptiness\", was released January 26, 2010. The fourth album, \"A Place Where The Sun Is Silent\" will released October 19, 2011, with Epitaph Records.\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "303120", "title": "Alesana"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303121", "text": "Amateur Athletic Union\n\nThe Amateur Athletic Union (AAU) is a sports organization in the United States. It was founded in 1888. It holds meets in many sports for amateur athletes (athletes who do not get paid) of all ages. These sports include baseball, basketball, football, golf, and track. A long time ago, when most athletes were amateurs, winning an AAU title meant that you were one of the best in your sport. In the United States, AAU meets used to also be trials for the Olympic Games. Since 1978, the AAU has lost most of its power. This is due to the Amateur Sports Act of 1978 and the fact that many good athletes are no longer amateurs. It is currently based in Lake Buena Vista, Florida at Disney's Wide World of Sports.\n", "id": "303121", "title": "Amateur Athletic Union"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303125", "text": "Jesse Owens\n\nJames Cleveland Owens (September 12, 1913 – March 31, 1980) was an American athlete. He was from Oakville, Alabama and moved to Cleveland, Ohio. He won four NCAA Championships in 1935 and 1936. At the 1936 Summer Olympics, he won gold medals in the 100m, 200m, long jump and 4x100 relay. He died of lung cancer in Tucson, Arizona.\n", "id": "303125", "title": "Jesse Owens"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303127", "text": "1999 UEFA Cup Final\n\nThe 1999 UEFA Cup Final was a football game that took place in Luzhniki Stadium, Moscow, on 12 May 1999 between Parma A.C. (Italy) and Olympique de Marseille (France). Parma A.C. won 3-0. So Parma A.C. won their second UEFA Cup title and fourth European trophy, having previously won the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup and the UEFA Super Cup.\n\nParma A.C. defeated Atlético Madrid in the semi-finals with a 5-2 win. Olympique de Marseille defeated Bologna in the semi-finals with a 1-1 draw, but Marseille won with the penalty shootout.\n\nParma A.C. defeated Olympique de Marseille with a 3-0 win, with goals by Crespo, Vanoli, and Chiesa, most of the goals in the first half.\n", "id": "303127", "title": "1999 UEFA Cup Final"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303128", "text": "List of islands of Germany\n\nThis is a list of islands of Germany.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "303128", "title": "List of islands of Germany"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303130", "text": "Video High Density\n\nVideo High Density (VHD) was a videodisc format which was marketed predominantly in Japan by JVC. There was also an audio-only variant, Audio High Density (AHD).\n\nVHD discs are 25 cm (9 5/6 inches) in diameter, and store up to 60 minutes of video per side. Each disc is stored in a plastic case, similar to a CED's case, so that the user could not touch the disc itself. The entire case was put into the player, which would take out the disc, and then the now empty case could be taken back out. After one side has finished playing, the disc would have to be taken out, flipped, and put back in to continue playing.\n\nSimilar to the RCA's CED, the signal on the VHD is recorded by varying capacitance on the disc. However, unlike the CED, the VHD does not contain any groves and the needle is made of diamond instead of titanium. Instead of having grooves, the needle is kept on track electronically so the needle does not have to actually touch the disc therefor resulting in less wear on the disc and on the needle. In one rotation of the disc, 2 frames of picture and audio were read.\n\nVHD was designed to be very interactive and was used in some video game systems as well as in car engine diagnostic tools.\n\nThe VHD was first demonstrated in 1978, and after many advertisements in National Geographic magazines, It was eventually released in Japan and in the USA in 1983. However, by this time both Laserdisc and CED were already not selling well compared to the VHS and Betamax VCR systems. As a result of this, JVC did not let the VHD be sold in North America, but made it available to the general public in Japan and commercially in the UK and the US.\n\nDuring the time the VHD was made, it was mostly used for karaoke systems, anime video games, and interactive training systems. In the UK, the VHD was used for training, demonstration, and fault diagnostics.\n\nIn Japan, a 3D version of the VHD utilizes double speed discs and special glasses.\n\nThe VHD was not very successful as a consumer product, but it sold well for commercial purposes. In Japan, the CED is still somewhat popular and the discs and players are both still collected.\n\n", "id": "303130", "title": "Video High Density"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303134", "text": "Rügen\n\nRügen \"(lat. Rugia)\" is the biggest island in Germany. There are several cities on the island. These include : Putbus, Garz, Binz, Bergen auf Rügen, Sassnizt, Glowe, Trent, Schaprode and Göhren. The island has a 77,000 population (according to the 2006 census). The island is about 926 square kilometers (or 357 square miles). The island is in the state of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern. Rügen is also one of the most famous places to go in Germany for vacation.\n\nRügen is in the northeast part of Germany in the Baltic Sea. The main landmass, Muttland, is surrounded my many peninsulas. There are also two national German park located on the island : Western Pomerania Lagoon Area National Park and Jasmund National Park.\n", "id": "303134", "title": "Rügen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303145", "text": "McLafferty rearrangement\n\nThe McLafferty rearrangement is an organic reaction seen in mass spectrometry. A mass spectrometer breaks apart the molecule being studied. The molecule breaks apart in consistent ways that chemists can predict. Most times, a carbon-carbon bond breaks and the atoms do not jump across the break between the fragments. The McLafferty rearrangement is an example of a hydrogen atom jumping to the other fragment as a part of the process of the bond breaking. It happens in an organic molecule containing a keto-group.\n\nThe American chemist Fred McLafferty was the first to describe the reaction in 1959.\nThe keto-group undergoes β-cleavage, with the gain of the γ-hydrogen atom. This rearrangement may take place by a radical or ionic mechanism.\n\n", "id": "303145", "title": "McLafferty rearrangement"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303153", "text": "Maska za maskou\n\nMaska za maskou (The Mask Behind the Mask) is the last studio album by the Czech underground band The Plastic People of the Universe. It was released in December 2009. \n\n\n\n", "id": "303153", "title": "Maska za maskou"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303156", "text": "Xiaotingia\n\nXiaotingia is an extinct genus of \"Archaeopteryx\"-like theropod dinosaur from early Upper Jurassic deposits of western Liaoning, China.\n\nThe Chinese team claims the fossils dated to 155 million years ago (mya), whereas the Solnhofen limestone where \"Archaeopteyx\" was found is 144 mya in age. The new fossil \"Xiaotingia\" cannot be dated so accurately, as they were originally been purchased from a dealer. Prof Xu first saw the specimen at the Shandong Tianyu Museum. The other question to be asked of all early dinobirds is: could they fly? \n\nA cladistic analysis by Xu and his team showed that \"Xiaotingia\" formed a clade with \"Archaeopteryx\", the Dromaeosauridae and the Troodontidae. This clade excludes other birds. They therefore (re)defined the concepts of Deinonychosauria and Avialae so \"Archaeopteryx\" and \"Xiaotingia\" belonged to the Deinonychosauria and \"Archaeopteryx\" no longer was an avian (bird). This led to popular reports that \"\"Archaeopteryx\" is no longer a bird\". \n\nHowever, the team explicitly allowed for a traditional Aves with \"Archaeopteryx\" as a specifier. Such a clade would in their opinion include the Deinonychosauria.\n", "id": "303156", "title": "Xiaotingia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303168", "text": "John Zorn\n\nJohn Zorn (born September 2, 1953 in New York City, New York, United states) is an American avant-garde composer, arranger, record producer, saxophonist and multi-instrumentalist. He is collaborated with Lou Reed, Weird Little Boy, Laurie Anderson and others.\n", "id": "303168", "title": "John Zorn"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303171", "text": "Collegium Musicum\n\nCollegium Musicum is a Slovak art rock band formed by Marián Varga in Czechoslovakia in late 1969. The band is reformed in 2008 and still plays.\n\n\n", "id": "303171", "title": "Collegium Musicum"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303178", "text": "Double bond\n\nA double bond in chemistry is when two chemical elements are joined together in a chemical bond and share four bonding electrons instead of the usual two. The most common double bond is between two carbon atoms, and can be found in alkenes. There are many types of double bonds, such as in a carbonyl group with a carbon atom and an oxygen atom. Other common double bonds are found in azo compounds (N=N), imines (C=N) and sulfoxides (S=O). In skeletal formula the double bond is shown as two parallel lines (=) between the two joined atoms. When this formula is printed, the equals sign is used.\nDouble bonds are stronger than single bonds and double bonds are also shorter. The bond order is two. Double bonds are also electron-rich, which makes them more reactive.\n\nThe two pairs of electrons involved in the bond do not behave in exactly the same way. One pair of electrons forms a stronger \"sigma\"bond, noted by σ and drawn as a straight line between the nuclei of the bonding atoms. While the other pair form a pi bond, π, drawn as two cloud-like areas where the electrons exist, as \"orbitals\".\n", "id": "303178", "title": "Double bond"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303182", "text": "Magny-Cours\n\nMagny-Cours is a commune in the Nièvre department in central France.\n\nIt is best known as the home of the \"Circuit de Nevers Magny-Cours\", a famous Auto racing circuit. It formerly hosted the Formula One French Grand Prix.\n\n\n\n", "id": "303182", "title": "Magny-Cours"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303184", "text": "I Wanna Go\n\n\"I Wanna Go\" is a 2011 single by Britney Spears. The song is third from her seventh studio album \"Femme Fatale\". The song was released on June 13, 2011. The song was an instant success. It reached the top of the Billboard Hot 100 a day after debuting. This resulted in a flash mob in Times Square. She also shut down Times Square for an unexpected performance. The song has currently been downloaded 1 million times on iTunes.\n", "id": "303184", "title": "I Wanna Go"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303188", "text": "Fiat Ducato\n\nThe Fiat Ducato is a series of vans and minibuses produced by Fiat in three generations since 1981. It is builded in cooperation with Citroën and Peugeot.\n", "id": "303188", "title": "Fiat Ducato"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303189", "text": "Jim Henson's Muppet Babies\n\nMuppet Babies is a Jim Henson's first television animated series by The Jim Henson Company, Kermit The Frog Productions and Marvel Productions which ran on CBS from 1984-1990, winning the Outstanding Animated Series Emmy for four consecutive years. The concept of presenting familiar Muppet characters as babies was introduced in a sequence of \"The Muppets Take Manhattan\". The movie featured puppet versions of Kermit the Frog, Miss Piggy, Gonzo, Fozzie Bear, Scooter, and Rowlf as babies (the puppet versions later returned one more time, for a home movie sequence in \"A Muppet Family Christmas\").\n\n", "id": "303189", "title": "Jim Henson's Muppet Babies"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303190", "text": "Cyclohexene\n\nA cyclohexene is a six-sided (hexagonal) shaped hydrocarbon ring made when carbon atoms join with hydrogen atoms. It is flammable, toxic, and colourless liquid which does not dissolve in water. It will, however, dissolve in alcohol.\n", "id": "303190", "title": "Cyclohexene"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303191", "text": "Mass spectrometry\n\nMass spectrometry (MS) is a process that measures the mass-to-charge ratio of charged particles. \nYou can use it to find out the mass of particles, and to find the basic chemicals in a sample or molecule. It can also make clear the chemical structures of molecules, such as peptides and other chemical compounds. It works by giving the particles in the sample an electric charge, which means an electron is removed from each particle, producing positively charged ions. This is done by using an electron gun - a high energy beam of electrons is passed through the sample to make electrically charged particles or ions. The ions are accelerated through a short tunnel, by use of negatively charged plates to which the positively charged ions are attracted. On passing through the tunnel, the ions are exposed to a magnetic field which causes their path to curve, depending on how heavy they are. Heavier ions are bent less than lighter ions (assuming they have the same \"+1\" charge), when experiencing the same 'pull' from the magnetic field, because they are more massive than lighter ions. This results in heavier ions hitting a detection plate, at the end of the tunnel, at a different position to lighter ions. From this information, the \"mass-to-charge ratio\" of the particles, and the \"relative abundance\" (how much was in the sample) of each type of particle can be worked out.\n\nThe first mass spectroscope was invented by the British physicist J. J. Thomson in 1912. His student Francis Aston developed the mass spectroscope for practical use. They are now widely used for agriculture, brewing, food processing, geology, petroleum exploration, medical drugs measurements and space exploration.\n", "id": "303191", "title": "Mass spectrometry"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303192", "text": "Ashleigh Ball\n\nAshleigh Ball (born March 31, 1983 in Vancouver, British Columbia) is a Canadian voice actor and singer who is best known for voicing \"Applejack\" and \"Rainbow Dash\" in the television series and the character \"Allura\" in the television show Voltron Force. Ball is also the lead singer of the Vancouver-based indie pop/acoustic band Hey Ocean!.\n\nShe was the subject in the documentary \"Brony: the Movie\", which followed her through her first interactions with the Brony community at BronyCon 2012.\n\n", "id": "303192", "title": "Ashleigh Ball"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303196", "text": "Ivan Kral\n\nIvan Kral (born Ivan Král; May 12, 1948 in Prague, Czechoslovakia) is a Czech-American guitarist, bass guitarist and songwriter. He has worked with Patti Smith and Iggy Pop. His songs recorded U2 and David Bowie.\n\n", "id": "303196", "title": "Ivan Kral"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303199", "text": "Tornado warning\n\nA tornado warning is an alert that means that a tornado or funnel cloud has been spotted around the area, and that people should take cover. When tornadoes have been spotted, the tornado sirens make sound in that place, letting people know that they have been seen.\n\nTornado warnings are higher than the warning of a Tornado watch, but there is an even \"higher\" level, which is a tornado emergency.\n", "id": "303199", "title": "Tornado warning"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303200", "text": "Tornado watch\n\nA tornado watch is a warning that means that weather conditions are right for tornadoes to form. So people should be careful.\n\nA tornado watch must not be confused with a tornado warning. It does not mean that a tornado has been seen; it just means that you should be careful because the weather is perfect for a tornado.\n", "id": "303200", "title": "Tornado watch"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303201", "text": "Dust devil\n\nDust devils are twirling masses of air that form in the desert and send sand spinning. The height of a dust devil can range from a few meters tall to more than 1000 meters tall. They are usually harmless, but occasionally they can cause some damage to both people and property.\n\nA dust devil forms when hot air near the ground rises quickly through small pocket of cooler, low-pressure air above it. If conditions are just right, the air may begin to rotate. As the air rapidly rises, the hot air is stretched vertically and because of angular momentum, the spinning gets much more intense. As the hot air cools when it rises, it eventually goes down to the base and expands horizontally, while more hot air shoots up the column to replace the lost air. The air that is displaced falls to the ground around the dust devil, creating a balancing force. Thus, a dust devil is formed.\n\nCertain conditions help the formation of dust devils: \n\n1. Flat barren, desert terrain: Flat terrain and hot conditions help the hot air \"fuel\" being always available. The dust and sand helps the dust devil be seen.\n<br>\n2. Clear skies or lightly cloudy conditions: The surface needs a lot of solar energy to heat the air.\n<br>\n3. Light or no wind, and cool temperature in the atmosphere: Without a cool atmosphere and hot surface, the dust devil with never form. Wind will not keep the dust devil stable.\n\nA dust devil \"dies\" when it eventually sucks in cool air from the surface. Cool air destroys the dust devil because it quickly discourages the rising of air through the column. This usually happens when the dust devil becomes weak, or enters a new terrain were the surface temperatures are cooler.\n\nDust devils occur on the planet of Mars as well. They can be ten times higher than ones on Earth, and fifty times as wide. They can pose a threat to technology placed on Mars.\n\nHowever, not all dust devils are damaging. Mission members keeping an eye on the Spirit rover reported that on March 12, 2005, a lucky encounter with a dust devil had cleaned the solar panels of that robot. Power levels dramatically increased and much more scientific work was able to be done.\n\n", "id": "303201", "title": "Dust devil"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303204", "text": "Samaritan Pentateuch\n\nThe Samaritan Pentateuch or Samaritan Torah is a special version of the Torah used by the Samaritans. This version was created at the latest 127 BC, when the Temple in Jerusalem was destroyed, and the Samaritans split from the other group in the Temple. As the name says, this version contains the first five books of Moses, or the Torah. \n\nScholars use the Samaritan Pentateuch when they want to find the meaning of words in the original Pentateuch or if they want to learn about the history of the different versions of the Bible. Some scrolls among the Dead Sea scrolls look like Samaritan Pentateuch.\n\nSamaritan practices are based on their version of the Five Books of Moses, which is slightly different from the Masoretic text or the Greek Septuagint texts. Some differences are small, such as the ages of different people mentioned in genealogy, while others are major, such as the commandment to only have one wife which appears in the Samaritan text but not in the other versions. (See .)\n\nSpecial importance is attached to the \"Abisha Scroll\", which is used in the Samaritan synagogue of Nablus. The Samaritans claim it was penned by Abishua, great-grandson of Aaron (), thirteen years after the entry into the land of Israel under the leadership of Joshua, son of Nun. But modern scholars have observed that the scroll appears to include work by different scribes from different centuries, with the oldest texts dating to the 12th century A.D.\n", "id": "303204", "title": "Samaritan Pentateuch"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303214", "text": "John Jacob Astor\n\nJohn Jacob Astor (July 17, 1763 – March 29, 1848), born Johann Jakob Astor, was a German-American businessman. He was born in Germany and moved to London and then to New York City in 1784. He started a business trading furs. By 1800, he had made half a million dollars trading furs. His company was called The Pacific Fur Trading Company. In the early 1800s, his company was trading furs in Oregon. His fur traders found the pass through which the Oregon Trail passes. He made even more money in New York real estate. When he died in 1848, he was worth over $50 million. Today, his fortune would be over $150 billion. The city of Astoria, Oregon was named for him. So was the neighborhood Astoria, Queens and Astor Place in Manhattan. \n", "id": "303214", "title": "John Jacob Astor"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303215", "text": "Pi bond\n\nIn chemistry, pi bonds (π bonds) are covalent chemical bonds where the orbital path of one electron crosses (overlaps) with the path of another. The electrons have a lobe shaped figure of eight path (see picture). There are two areas of overlap as the paths overlap on both lobes. Only one of the orbital's nodal planes passes through both of the involved nuclei. \nThe Greek letter π in their name refers to p orbitals. The orbital symmetry of the pi bond looks the same as the p orbital when seen down the bond axis. P orbitals usually have this sort of bonding. D orbitals are also assumed to use pi bonding but this is not necessarily what happens in reality. The idea of bonding d orbitals fits in with the theory of hypervalence.\n\nPi bonds are usually weaker than sigma bonds. Quantum mechanics says this is because the orbital paths are parallel so there is much less overlap between the p-orbitals. \n\nPi bonds happen when two atomic orbitals are in contact through two areas of overlap. Pi-bonds are more spread out bonds than the sigma bonds. Electrons in pi bonds are sometimes called pi electrons. Molecular fragments joined by a pi bond cannot rotate about that bond without breaking the pi bond. The rotation destroys the parallel paths of the two p orbitals.\n\nAtoms that are joined by a double bond have one sigma bond and one pi bond. If they are joined by a triple bond they have one sigma bond and two pi bonds.\n\nA pi bond is weaker than a sigma bond, but the combination of pi and sigma bond is stronger than either bond by itself. The extra strength of a multiple bond versus a single (sigma bond) is shown in many ways. The most obvious is a contraction in bond lengths. For example in organic chemistry, carbon-carbon bond lengths are in ethane (154 pm), in ethylene (134 pm) and in acetylene (120 pm). More bonds make the total bond shorter and stronger.\nElectronic configuration is based on S,P,D,and f -Block.\nS has 2 electrons\nP has 8 electrons\nD has 10 electrons\nF has 16 electrons\n\nPi bonds do not necessarily join a pair of atoms that are also sigma-bonded.\n\nIn certain metal complexes, pi interactions between a metal atom and alkyne and alkene pi antibonding orbitals form pi-bonds.\n\nIn some cases of multiple bonds between two atoms, there is no sigma bond at all, only pi bonds. Examples include diiron hexacarbonyl (Fe(CO)), dicarbon (C) and the borane BH. In these compounds the central bond has only pi bonding. In order to get the most orbital overlap the bond distances are much shorter than expected.\n", "id": "303215", "title": "Pi bond"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303219", "text": "Being and Time\n\nBeing and Time (, 1927) is a book that was written by the German philosopher Martin Heidegger. It is his best known book and is said to be one of the most important philosophical works of the 20th century. It has greatly influenced 20th-century philosophy, particularly existentialism, hermeneutics and deconstruction.\n", "id": "303219", "title": "Being and Time"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303220", "text": "Supertec\n\nSupertec was a Formula One engine supplier in 1999 and 2000. Supertec supplied engines that were designed by Renault F1. They took engines built by Mecachrome from the 1998 season, and updated them for 1999 and 2000. Supertec then put their name on the engines.\n\n \n", "id": "303220", "title": "Supertec"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303224", "text": "Chesil Beach\n\nChesil Beach, sometimes called Chesil Bank, in Dorset, southern England is one of three major shingle structures in Britain. Its name is derived from the Old English \"ceosel\" or \"cisel\", meaning \"gravel\" or \"shingle\". \n\nIt is a kind of offshore barrier which has joined the mainland with Portland Bill. The lagoon between the chesil and the mainland is called The Fleet or The Fleet Lagoon.\n\nThe shingle beach is 18 miles long (29km), 220 yards wide (200m) and 50 feet high (15m). The beach and the Fleet are part of the Jurassic Coast, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and the location for a book, \"On Chesil Beach\" by Ian McEwan.\n\nAt the eastern end of the beach at the village of Chiswell, against the cliffs of the Isle of Portland, the beach curves round sharply to form Chesil Cove. This part of the beach protects the low-lying village from flooding. Westwards the shingle forms a straight line along the coast, enclosing the Fleet, a shallow tidal lagoon. The lagoon is 9½ feet (3m) at its deepest.\n\nThe beach provides shelter from the prevailing winds (from the west) and waves for the town of Weymouth and the village of Chiswell, which would otherwise probably not exist\n\nVarying with the Bank's unbroken increase in height, to , above mean high water, the size of the flint and chert shingle varies from pea-sized at the north-west end (by West Bay) to orange-sized at the south-east end (by Portland). It is said that smugglers who landed on the beach in the middle of the night could judge \"exactly where they were\" by the size of the shingle.\n", "id": "303224", "title": "Chesil Beach"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303233", "text": "Polina Sidikhina\n\nPolina Eugenyevna Sidikhina (; born on October 26, 1988) is a Russian stage and movie actress.\n\nPolina Eugenyevna Sidikhina was born on October 26, 1988 in Leningrad, Russian SFSR, USSR (now Moscow, Russia) to actors Eugeny Sidikhin (b.1964) and Tatyana Borkovskaya (b.1965). She has two younger sisters, Aglaya Sidikhina (b.1998) and Anfisa Sidikhina (b.2007).\n\nGraduated from Saint Petersburg State Theatre Arts Academy in 2010.\n\nPlay in theatres and movies since 2001.\n\n", "id": "303233", "title": "Polina Sidikhina"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303239", "text": "Happy Valley Shanghai\n\nHappy Valley Shanghai () is an amusement park in Songjiang, Shanghai, People's Republic of China. The park is about 40 kilometers (25 miles) from downtown Shanghai. It covers an area of 863,500 square meters (213 acres). Happy Valley contains seven big areas, each with different themed zones, including Sunshine Beach, Happy Times, Typhoon Bay, Gold Mine Town, Ant Kingdom, Shanghai Beach and Shangri-la Woods. There are more than 100 rides in the park.\n\nThe park was opened on August 16, 2009. In the beginning of the park's operation, many people didn't like it because of long waiting times and being dangerous. Most of the rides were broken, the lines were too long, and many people were hurt not only from riding the rides, but from walking around the park. Three people were hurt when a big sign board fell on top of them.\n\nThe park currently has six roller coasters. Five of them were opened when the park began its operation while the mine train coaster opened in October 2009.\n\n", "id": "303239", "title": "Happy Valley Shanghai"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303244", "text": "Nani\n\nLuís Carlos Almeida da Cunha \"Nani\" (born 17 November 1986) is a Portuguese footballer currently playing for Manchester United and the Portugal national team.\n", "id": "303244", "title": "Nani"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303246", "text": "Radiator\n\nA radiator is a device used to move heat from one location to another location. Some radiators are used to cool things, such as a car engine. Some radiators are used to heat \nthings, such as a house.\n\nMost cars use a radiator to cool the engine. To produce power, engines must burn a fuel. This creates a lot of heat. If the heat is not removed, the engine will overheat and stop running. The radiator is connected to the engine with hoses.\n\nA liquid flows into the engine. Heat is moved from the engine to the liquid. The heat moves because of Newton's Law of Cooling. This law says that heat will move from something hot to something cooler.\n\nThe liquid then moved into the radiator. The radiator has many small tubes for the liquid to flow through. Air moves around to the tubes to cool them. This cools the liquid. The liquid then return to the engine. This is a closed loop.\n\nMany houses are located in areas that get cold. Heat needs to be added to the house so the people are comfortable. A radiator is placed in a room to add heat to the room. The heat is created by a furnace. A heating radiator works just like a cooling radiator. The heat from the furnace moves to the radiator. The room is cooler than the radiator. The heat moves from the radiator into the room to warm the room.\n", "id": "303246", "title": "Radiator"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303247", "text": "David de Gea\n\nDavid de Gea Quintana (born 7 November 1990) is a Spanish footballer. He plays for Manchester United. He started playing at the senior level for Atlético Madrid in 2009. Since 2011, he is playing for United, and was 8th in clean sheets in the 2014/15 season, with 10 clean sheets.\n", "id": "303247", "title": "David de Gea"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303249", "text": "Zvonko Bušić\n\nZvonko Bušić (23 January 1946 – 1 September 2013) is a terrorist, mastermind of the 1976 hijacking of TWA Flight 355 and a bombing at Grand Central Station in New York. For this crime he was sentenced to the mandatory minimum term of life imprisonment. He spent 32 years in prison before being released on parole in July 2008.\n\nBušić was born in Gorica, a village in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Yugoslavia, and finished high school in Imotski. At the age of 20, he emigrated to Vienna. In Vienna, three years later, in 1969, he met the American student, Julienne Eden Schultz, who was studying German there and who soon thereafter became involved in the activities of the Croatian emigration. In coordination with Zvonko Bušić, she and a friend traveled to Zagreb and threw anti-Yugoslav leaflets on Republic Square, after which they were arrested and imprisoned. After release, Julienne returned to Vienna and in 1972, Julienne and Zvonko married in Frankfurt. Later they moved to the U.S. where he became a member and leader of the Croatian terrorist group called Croatian National Resistance.\n\nA group of Croatian terrorists made up of Zvonko and his wife, Julienne Bušić, Petar Matanić, Frane Pešut and Slobodan Vlašić hijacked a commercial Trans World Airlines plane on September 10, 1976. It was Boeing 727 Flight 355, heading from New York City to Chicago. The mastermind of this terrorist group, Zvonko Bušić delivered a sealed letter to the pilot, Captain Carey. The letter informed the Captain that the airplane had been hijacked. It said that the hijackers had five gelignite bombs, and that a bomb had been planted in a locker across from the Commodore Hotel on 42nd Street in New York with the further instructions that the U.S. authorities should follow. The hijackers demanded heading the plane in the direction of London. Their ultimate demands, given in the instructions, were:\n\nThe terrorists' first demand was that thousands of copies of a \"Declaration of the Croatian Liberation Forces\" be scattered from the air over New York, Chicago, Montreal, Paris, London, and the site of a popular festival in Croatia. This declaration was written for this purposes by a Croatia's dissident, Bruno Bušić.\n\nThe plane took refueling stop in Montreal, and flew to Paris, France. During the new refueling stop in Newfoundland, the terrorist agreed to release thirty passengers. Bušić reminded Captain Carey that the aircraft could be blown up at any time if the demands were not met and that the passengers released at Newfoundland, if failed to distribute leaflets as ordered, the remaining passengers' fate would be on their consciences.\n\nIn Paris, the hijackers got information that their demands had been met. So they surrendered to the French police, which extradited them to the United States. During efforts to deactivate the explosives four hours later at the detonation site, American policeman Brian Murray died, and three other officers were wounded.\n\nZvonko Bušić was charged with and convicted of air piracy resulting in death, which carried a mandatory life sentence. Three years after the trial, Judge John Bartels declared Bušić eligible for parole after Dec. 31 1979.\n\nOn April 17, 1987 Bušić escaped from the Otisville Correctional Institution, a medium-security Federal prison in Orange County, N.Y. Two days later, Bušić was caught and surrendered peacefully.\n\nOn June 13, 1989, Bartels wrote a letter-opinion to the U.S. Parole Commission, in which he stated that the death of the police officer was partly due to the police's negligence and that he had no recommendation to the Commission nor objection to Bušić's release. However, the Commission rejected this parole.\n\nHis second request for parole was denied in 2006, after service of 30 years, although the others in the group had already been free for at least 17 years. After this parole denial, Croatian government along with the Croatian Helsinki Committee, launched a campaign to secure his release on humanitarian grounds, arguing that Bušić had served out his sentence and therefore should be released.\n\nBušić spent his last two years of imprisonment at the Federal Correctional Complex in Terre Haute, Indiana, transferred there from Allenwood, Pennsylvania.\n\nCroatian National Resistance (Otpor) idealized Bušićes and their gang. Marin Sopta, the former North American Otpor leader, said: \"The Bušićes were our heroes. They did more to promote the Croatian cause than anyone else\". Sopta visited Zvonko Bušić regularly when he was serving time in Pennsylvania.\n\nBušić was granted parole in July 2008 and turned over to immigration authorities for deportation proceedings. A condition of his parole was that he could not return to the U.S.\nFreeing this terrorist from a life sentence and shipping him to his homeland caused the disgust of relatives of the city cop he murdered more than 30 years ago.\n\nLt. Terence McTigue, who was blinded in the blast that killed Murray, had spoken against the release of Bušić and his crew at earlier parole hearings but, he said, he was never notified of the last, fateful one. McTigue saw this event as a political favor done for the Croatian government and said, \"It is like killing Brian Murray and injuring me all over again.\" Sen. Chuck Schumer (D-N.Y.) protested Bušić's release without hearing from the victims, to Attorney General Michael Mukasey.\n\nZvonko Bušić had been the object of suspicion of many of those who looked into the La Guardia bombing which happened on December 29 1975. The suspicion was raised by Lt. McTigue, Edwin T. Dreher, who, as a deputy police chief at the time, was put in charge of solving this case, Frank McDarby, a detective who interrogated Zvonko Bušić in an F.B.I. office 33 years ago; the crime writer Kevin F. McMurray, who spoke with Zvonko Bušić for three hours in 1997 in a visitors’ room at the federal penitentiary in Lewisburg, Pa.; and Robert K. Tanenbaum, a former prosecutor from the Manhattan district attorney’s office. Each of them reviewed this case anew and wondered anew if Zvonko Bušić escaped punishment for one of the biggest unsolved terrorist acts in the USA. Zvonko Bušić denied any involvement in the La Guardia bombing. But Lt. McTigue was struck by the similarities in the two bombings:\n\n\"Both bombs were in a public locker in a transportation facility, a few days after a holiday, and both were large and heavy,\" Mr. McTigue said. He noted that both devices utilized dynamite and \"a 9-volt battery, possibly for a lantern.\"\nBušić died by suicide on 1 September 2013 with firearm in his apartment near Zadar, Croatia. He was discovered by his wife Julienne.\n", "id": "303249", "title": "Zvonko Bušić"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303262", "text": "Luna 1\n\nLuna 1 (also known as the First Cosmic Ship, Cosmic Rocket and Mechta (, Literal translation: \"Dream\")) was a space probe of the Soviet Union. It was the first mission in the Luna programme and it was the first spacecraft to reach the Moon. Luna 1 made some key scientific discoveries and it is one of the best achievements of the Soviet Union space programme.\n\nThe spacecraft was sphere-shaped. Five antennae came out of one end. Instrument ports came out of the surface of the sphere. It also had various metallic emblems with the Soviet coat of arms.\n\nLuna 1 had radio equipment, a tracking transmitter and a telemetering system for communication with Earth. The spacecraft carried several scientific devices too. These included a magnetometer, a device for measuring magnetic fields, a scintillation counter, a device for detecting high energy particles and a geiger counter, a device for measuring radiation. Luna 1 also carried a micrometeorite detector and other equipment.\n\nThe space probe was launched on January 2, 1959 at Baikonur Cosmodrome by a SS-6 Sapwood rocket. The launch was successful and Luna 1 became the first man-made object ever to reach the escape velocity of the Earth.\n\nOn January 3, 1959, the spacecraft released a cloud of sodium gas so that astronomers could track the probe and also to serve as an experiment on the behaviour of gas in space.\n\nLuna 1 was intended to impact the Moon's surface. However, on January 4, 1959, it passed within 5995 km of the Moon and began to orbit the Sun between the orbits of Earth and Mars, where it is still orbiting now, on a 450 day orbit. Thus, Luna 1 became the first spacecraft to orbit the Sun.\n\nThe spacecraft made some key discoveries. One is the Moon has no magnetic field. Another is the fact that there is a flow of ionized plasma coming from the Sun, now called solar wind. The probe also found out useful data about Earth's radiation belt, the Van Allen radiation belt.\n", "id": "303262", "title": "Luna 1"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303271", "text": "Lyonel Feininger\n\nLyonel Charles Feininger (July 17, 1871– January 13, 1956) was a German-American painter. He also drew cartoons (caricaturist).\n\nLyonel Feininger's father was the German violinist Karl Feininger. His mother was the American singer Elizabeth Feininger. Feininger grew up in New York City.\n\nFeininger married Clara Fürst, the daughter of the painter Gustav Fürst. They had two daughters. He also had several children with Julia Berg whom he later married. His sons, Andreas Feininger and T. Lux Feininger, both became artists. Andreas was a photographer and T. Lux became a photographer and a painter.\n\nHe moved to Berlin in 1887 to study at the Königliche Akademie Berlin under Ernst Hancke. Then he studied at art schools in Berlin with Karl Schlabitz, and in Paris with sculptor Filippo Colarossi. He started as a caricaturist in 1894 for several German, French and American magazines. These included \"Harper's Round Table\", \"Harper's Young People\", \"Humoristische Blätter\", \"Lustige Blätter\", \"Das Narrenschiff\", \"Berliner Tageblatt\" and \"Ulk\".\n\nIn February of 1906, James Keeley, editor of The \"Chicago Tribune\" traveled to Germany. He was looking for artists to draw cartoons for his newspaper. He recruited Feininger to draw two comic strips (\"The Kin-der-Kids\" and \"Wee Willie Winkie's World\") for the \"Chicago Tribune\". People liked the comic strips for their humor and experimental drawing style. Fenininger also worked as a commercial caricaturist for 20 years for various newspapers and magazines in both the USA and Germany. Later, Art Spiegelman wrote in \"The New York Times Book Review,\" that Feininger's comics have “achieved a breathtaking formal grace unsurpassed in the history of the medium.”\n\nFeininger's art was chosen to be a part of the annual Berlin Secession art show in the years 1901 through 1903.\n\nFeininger started to work as a fine artist at the age of 36. He was a member of the \"Berliner Sezession\" in 1909. He was associated with expressionist group Die Brücke, the Novembergruppe, Gruppe 1919, the Blaue Reiter circle and The Blue Four. When Walter Gropius founded the Bauhaus in Germany in 1919, Feininger became the master artist in charge of the printmaking workshop. He designed the cover for the Bauhaus 1919 manifesto: an expressionist woodcut 'cathedral'. He taught at the Bauhaus for several years. Among the students who attended his workshops were Ludwig Hirschfeld Mack (German/Australian, 1893–1965), Hans Friedrich Grohs (German 1892 - 1981) and Margarete Koehler-Bittkow (German/American, 1898–1964)\n\nIn 1933, the Nazi Party came to power in Germany. Feininger's wife was partly Jewish, and they decided to leave Germany. The Nazi Party declared his work to be \"degenerate.\" They moved to America after his work was exhibited in the 'degenerate art' (\"Entartete Kunst\") in 1936, but before the 1937 exhibition in Munich. After moving to the United States, Feininger taught at Black Mountain College.\n\nIn addition to drawing, Feininger created art with painted toy figures being photographed in front of drawn backgrounds.\n\nFeininger also worked sometimes as a pianist and composer. Music historians still keep several of Feininger's piano compositions and fugues for organ.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "303271", "title": "Lyonel Feininger"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303289", "text": "Margaret Olley\n\nMargaret Olley ( 24 June, 1923, Lismore, New South Wales - 26 July, 2011, Paddington, New South Wales) was an Australian artist. She was well known for generous gifts of paintings and money to public art galleries in Australia. These gifts included works by Cezanne and Picasso. She is also famous for being the model for portraits. Two paintings of her won the Archibald Prize; William Dobell's painting in 1948, and Ben Quilty's in 2011. She was described by Julia Gillard, the Prime Minister of Australia, as a great artist and a true Australian national treasure.\n\nShe grew up on sugarcane farms in Queensland, and her artistic talent was noticed at school. Her teachers convinced her parents she should study art at the Brisbane Technical College. She then moved to Sydney and studied art at the East Sydney Technical College. She held the first of her 90 exhibitions in 1948. Many of her paintings were of things around her home such as flowers and bowls of fruit. In 1996 she was given Australia's highest honour, the Companion of the Order of Australia.\n", "id": "303289", "title": "Margaret Olley"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303294", "text": "William Dobell\n\nSir William Dobell (24 September 1899, Newcastle, New South Wales - 13 May 1970, Lake Macquarie, New South Wales) was a famous Australian artist, well known for his portrait painting. He won the 1943 Archibald Prize with a portrait of another artist, Joshua Smith. The painting became the centre of a court case when two other artists said it was not a portrait, but a caricature. They said this meant it should not have won the prize. Dobell won the legal case, but it caused him many health problems and led to a nervous breakdown. He kept away from people and went to live in his parent's holiday house, Wangi Wangi, on the shores of Lake Macquarie.\n", "id": "303294", "title": "William Dobell"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303295", "text": "Proteales\n\nProteales is the botanical name of an order of flowering plants. Such an order has been recognized by almost all taxonomists.\n", "id": "303295", "title": "Proteales"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303296", "text": "Archibald Prize\n\nThe Archibald Prize is the most important prize for portraits in Australia. It was first awarded in 1921. The money for the prize was left by J. F. Archibald, the editor of \"The Bulletin\" magazine who died in 1919. The prize is awarded by the Trustees of the Art Gallery of New South Wales for the best portrait of a person famous in Art, Letters, Science or Politics. The artist must have lived in Australia for at least one year. The Archibald Prize is awarded every year. In 2015 the prize was worth A$100,000.\n\nThe first prize awarded in 1921 was worth £400. Early winners included William Beckwith McInnes, John Longstaff, and William Dargie. Dargie's painting which won in 1942 had been painted when he was an official war artist during World War 2 in Syria. The ship carrying the painting back to Australia sank and the painting was underwater for some time.\n\nIn 1946 the trustees selected works for entry, instead of displaying all the entries. Less than a third of the entries were chosen for exhibition.\n\nDargie also won 1956 prize with a portrait of Australia's celebrated Aboriginal painter Albert Namatjira. The portrait was done while the Namatjira was visiting Sydney from the Central Desert.\n\nIn 1964 and 1980 the prize was not awarded as there were no works that the trustees thought were good enough.\n\nThere are usually about 700 entries in the Archibald Prize, but only about 40 are selected as finalists for display. Some of the winning artists have had to enter for many years before they made the final display of paintings.\n\nPortraits in 2006 included a painting of one of The Wiggles by Patrick Whiteley\nactor Steve Bisley by Bronwyn Graham,\nactor Garry McDonald by Paul Jackson,\npolitician Steve Bracks by Garry Anderson,\nactor Cate Blanchett by McLean Edwards,\nactor Ernie Dingo by Marie Klement,\ncricketer Dennis Lillee by Melinda Mackay,\nmusician and TV personality Wilbur Wilde by Phillip Howe,\nPeter Slipper by Wayne Strickland. The 2010 prize winner was Sam Leach with his painting of musician Tim Minchin.\n\nThe prize has often been the centre of argument and there have even been several court cases. The most famous case was in 1943 when William Dobell's winning painting of artist Joshua Smith was claimed to be a caricature and not a portrait.\n\nThe Archibald is one of the few art prizes in which the artist's signature is covered up. The judges do not know who did the paintings. This is to try and stop the judges, some of whom are artists, from simply giving the prize to their friends and not the best painting.\n\nMax Meldrum criticised the Archibald Prize winner in 1938, saying that women could not be expected to paint as well as men. Nora Heysen was the first woman to win the Archibald Prize, with a portrait of Madame Elink Schuurman, the wife of the Consul General for the Netherlands.\n\nIn 1953 several art students including John Olsen protested William Dargie's winning portrait. It was the seventh time he had won the prize. One protester tied a sign around her dog which said \"Winner Archibald Prize – William Doggie\". Dargie went on to win the prize again in 1956.\n\nAfter Prime Minister Gough Whitlam was dismissed he refused to sit for the traditional portrait which is done of Australian Prime Ministers. He said that the 1972 Archibald Prize winning portrait by Clifton Pugh be used instead. This is now on display at New Parliament House in Canberra.\n\nIn 1975, John Bloomfield's portrait of Tim Burstall was rejected because it had been painted from a photograph, and not from life. The prize was then given to Kevin Connor. John Bloomfield took action in 1981 saying that the winner that year, Eric Smith had not painted his subject from life. In 1983 John Bloomfield went to court to try to get back the 1975 prize but was unsuccessful. In 1995 the application form of the Archibald Prize was changed to make it clear that the subject must be painted from life.\n\nIn 1985, control of the trust was given to the Art Gallery of New South Wales after a court case. In 1997 the painting of the Bananas in Pyjamas television characters by Evert Ploeg not allowed because it was not a painting of a person. Hundreds of portraits each year are not accepted as finalists.\n\nThe 2000 Archibald winner, Adam Cullen, took action against the American Broadcasting Company who had used his painting, \"Portrait of David Wenham\", in a television commercial.\n\nIn 2002, head packer Steve Peters chose a painting of himself by Dave Machin as a possible winner for the Packing Room Prize. It did not win, but it was on display outside the Archibald exhibition. After this, portraits of the head packer were no longer allowed.\n\nIn 2004 Craig Ruddy's portrait of actor David Gulpilil, won both the main prize and the \"People's Choice\" award. It was challenged because it was a charcoal sketch rather than a painting. The claim was dismissed in the Supreme Court in June 2006.\n\nIn 2008 Sam Leach's portrait of himself as Hitler made the front page of Melbourne's newspaper \"The Age\". This started a national argument about of his choice of subject matter. The prize money was also changed to $50 000\n\nSince 1988 there have been two extra awards added to the Archibald prize event. In 1991 the Packing Room Prize was established. The staff who receive the portraits and put them in the gallery, vote for their choice of winner. Although the prize is said to be awarded by the staff, the gallery's head storeman – , Steve Peters – holds 51% of the vote. The other award is the Peoples Choice Award in which votes from the viewing public are collected to find a winner. This award also comes with a prize of $2,500. To date, there has never been a matching Archibald Prize winner and a Packing Room Prize chosen in the same year, but there were two Peoples Choice Awards given to Archibald Prize winners in 1988 and 2004.\n\nTwice there has been a matching Packing prize winner and Peoples choice award (neither won the main prize). The first was Paul Newton's portrait of Roy Slaven and HG Nelson in 2001, and second was Jan Williamson's portrait of singer/songwriter Jenny Morris the following year in 2002.\n\nThe Archibald is held at the same time as the Sir John Sulman Prize, the Wynne Prize, the recent Australian Photographic Portrait Prize and was held with the Dobell Prize before 2003. The Archibald Prize is the next richest portrait prize in Australia, after the Doug Moran National Portrait Prize. However, the Archibald is the only artist's prize that receives much attention in the general press. Part of the reason is probably that many of the paintings feature well known Australians such as actors, sportspeople, and politicians, making the art more accessible than other genres. It is also longer running with a richer tradition than the newer established portrait prizes.\n\nIn 1978 Brett Whiteley won the Archibald, Wynne and Sulman Prizes all in the same year, the only time this has happened. It was his second win for the Archibald and the other prizes as well.\n\nSome paintings which do not make the Archibald Prize finalists are shown at the S. H. Ervin Gallery in the Salon des Refusés exhibition, which began in 1992.\n\nThe satirical Bald Archy Prize, supposedly judged by a cockatoo, was started in 1994 at the Coolac Festival of Fun as a parody of the Archibald Prize; it attracted so many visitors that it has moved to Sydney.\n\n\n", "id": "303296", "title": "Archibald Prize"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303297", "text": "Geraniales\n\nThe Geraniales are a small order of flowering plants, included within the rosid subgroup of dicotyledons. The largest family in the order is the Geraniaceae, with over 800 species. In addition, the order includes some small families, contributing together another less than 40 species. Most Geraniales are herbaceous, but there are also shrubs and small trees.\n", "id": "303297", "title": "Geraniales"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303299", "text": "Pithole, Pennsylvania\n\nPithole or Pithole City is a ghost town in Cornplanter Township, Venango County in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. It is about from Oil Creek State Park and the Drake Well Museum. The first oil well was in that area. The quick growing of Pithole and then fast decline made it one of the most famous of the oil boomtowns.\n\nOil was found at wells close to Pithole in January 1865. A large number of people moved to the area. Many of these people were land speculators. The town was built in May. By December, the area became an official town with about 20,000 people living in it. Pithole had at least 54 hotels, 3 churches, the third biggest post office in Pennsylvania, a newspaper, a theater, a railroad, the world's first pipeline, and a red-light district \"the likes of Dodge City's\". By 1866, less oil was being made in Pithole. Oil was found in other towns near Pithole. This made many people from Pithole leave to live in those places. By 1877, the town no longer existed.\n\nThe site was cleared of plants and was given to the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission in 1961. A visitors center with information about the history of Pithole, was built in the 1970s. Pithole was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1973.\n\n\n", "id": "303299", "title": "Pithole, Pennsylvania"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303301", "text": "Cornales\n\nCornales is an order of flowering plants, basal among the asterids, containing about 600 species. Plants within Cornales usually have four-parted flowers, drupaceous fruits, and inferior gynoecia topped with disc-shaped nectaries. Under the APG system, Cornales includes the following families:\n\n", "id": "303301", "title": "Cornales"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303306", "text": "Cornplanter Township, Venango County, Pennsylvania\n\nCornplanter Township is a township in Venango County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 2,687 at the 2000 census.\n", "id": "303306", "title": "Cornplanter Township, Venango County, Pennsylvania"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303307", "text": "Venango County, Pennsylvania\n\nVenango County is a county in the U.S. state of Pennsylvania. As of the 2010 census, 54,984 people lived there. Its county seat is Franklin.\n", "id": "303307", "title": "Venango County, Pennsylvania"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303309", "text": "List of Archibald Prize winners\n\nThis is a list of winners of the Archibald Prize for portraiture. As many of the paintings are copyrighted, a link to images has been listed where available.\n\nYear – Artist – Title\n\n\n\n\nBesides the winners, there have been many Archibald finalists of Australian celebrities, including musicians, athletes, politicians, film-makers and artists. Some selected ones: (listed \"Artist\" – \"Subject\")\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs well as the usual Archibald with its set criteria, there was a Sporting Archibald which had a focus on sport due to the 2000 Sydney Olympics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "303309", "title": "List of Archibald Prize winners"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303330", "text": "Pablo Escobar\n\nPablo Emilio Escobar Gaviria (December 1, 1949–December 2, 1993) was a Colombian drug lord. He is known as one of the \"World's Greatest Outlaws\". Escobar was the hardest cocaine dealer to catch. He is probably the richest and most successful criminal in world history. Some sources say that he was the second richest criminal ever, after Amado Carrillo Fuentes. In 1989, \"Forbes\" magazine said that Escobar was the seventh richest man in the world. The magazine said that he had about US $25 billion. He owned many luxury residences and automobiles. In 1986, he entered Colombian politics with success. He had to stop his political career because he was charged as criminal.\n\nEscobar was born in Rionegro in Antioquia, Colombia. He was the third of seven children to Abel de Jesus Escobar and Hemilda Gaviria. His father was a farmer and his mother an elementary school teacher. Escobar and his family lived in an adobe hut. They had no electricity but had running water. Pablo Escobar and his brother's school once sent them home because they had no shoes and no money to buy them. Pablo Escobar studied political science at a university nearby. He had to stop studying because he could not pay the fees. This was when he began his criminal career. He started to steal gravestones and removed the words from them to resell them. His brother, Roberto Escobar, said that this was not the truth. He said that the gravestones came from cemetery owners whose clients had stopped paying for site care. Escobar then studied for a short time at the University of Antioquia.\n\nAfter this, Pablo started doing whatever else he could do to make money. He sold illegal cigarettes and fake lottery tickets. He even stole money from people when they left the bank. At the age of 20, he was already a famous car thief. In the early 1970s, he was a thief and bodyguard. He made $100,000 for kidnapping an executive from Medellín. Then he entered the drug trade. His next aim was to become a millionaire. Therefore, Escobar worked for the multi-millionaire and smuggler, Alvaro Prieto. Escobar became a millionaire at the age of 22.\n\nThe book \"The Accountant's Story\" which Pablo Escobar's brother published, Roberto Escobar, discusses how his brother became rich. It explains how he rose from poverty. The book also says how Escobar became one of the richest men of the world. He lead the largest and most successful criminal enterprise in world history. At times, the Medellín drug cartel was smuggling 15 tons of cocaine a day. This was worth more than half a billion dollars. They sent it to the United States and sold it there. According to Roberto Escobar, Pablo Escobar's accountant, they spent $2,500 a month for buying rubber bands to wrap the stacks of cash. They had more illegal money than they could store in banks. Therefore, they stored the bricks of cash in their warehouses. About 10% were destroyed each year because of rats.\n\nIn 1975, Escobar started to develop his cocaine trade. He even flew a plane himself several times, mainly between Colombia and Panama. He smuggled a plane load into the United States. Escobar later bought 15 newer and bigger airplanes (including a Learjet) and 6 helicopters. . \n\nThere were no drug cartels then and only a few drug barons. There was a lot of business for everyone. They bought the cocaine paste in Peru. They refined it in a laboratory in a two-story house in Medellín. At first, they smuggled the cocaine in old planes. The pilot could earn as much as £500,000 for each flight depending on how much he could smuggle.\n\nSoon the demand for cocaine in the United States increased. Escobar started to organize more smuggling ships and routes. He also improved the sale networks in South Florida, California and other parts of the USA. Escobar and Carlos Lehder worked together to develop a new drug center in the Bahamas, called Norman's Cay. Lehder and Robert Vesco bought most of the land on the island. This included an airstrip, a harbor, hotels, houses and boats. They also built a warehouse to store the cocaine. From 1978 to 1982, this was used as a central smuggling route for the Medellín Cartel. Escobar bought of land, which included Hacienda Napoles, for several million dollars. He created a zoo, a lake and other things for his family and organization. At one point, about 70 to 80 tons of cocaine were brought from Colombia to the United States every month. At the peak of Escobar's power in the mid-1980s, he sent about 11 tonnes per flight in planes to the United States. In addition to using the planes, Roberto Escobar said he also used two small submarines to transport the massive loads.\n\nIn 1982, Escobar was elected as a deputy (alternative) representative to the Chamber of Representatives of Colombia's Congress. He was part of the Colombian Liberal Party. During the 1980s, Escobar became known internationally because his drug network became famous. The Medellín Cartel controlled a large part of the drugs that entered the United States, Mexico, Puerto Rico and the Dominican Republic. The cocaine was mostly from Peru and Bolivia. The Colombian coca was not of best quality. Escobar's product reached many other nations, mostly around the Americas. His network reportedly reached as far as Asia.\n\nCorruption characterized Escobar's dealings with the Colombian system. He had an effective way of dealing with law enforcements and the government. This is often referred to as \"\"plata o plomo\"\" (literally \"silver or lead\"or \"accept money or face bullets\"). This resulted in the deaths of hundreds of individuals. This included civilians, policemen and state officials. At the same time, Escobar bribed many government officials, judges and other politicians. Escobar was responsible for the murder of Colombian presidential candidate Luis Carlos Galán. The \"Cartel de Medellín\" was also involved in a deadly drug war, their enemy was the Cartel de Cali.\n\nPablo Escobar once said that the cocaine business was \"simple - you bribe someone here, you bribe someone there, and you pay a friendly banker to help you bring the money back.\" In 1989, his Medellín cartel controlled 80% of the global cocaine market.\n\nThe United States and Colombian governments saw Escobar as an enemy. At the same time, Escobar was a hero to many people in Medellín, especially to the poor people as he built houses for them. He was a sports fan, and built football fields and multi-sports courts. He also sponsored children's football teams.\n\nEscobar was responsible for the construction of many hospitals, schools and churches in western Colombia. This made him popular with the local Roman Catholic Church. He worked hard for his \"Robin Hood\" image. Escobar often gave money to the poor through housing projects and other civic activities. The population of Medellín often helped Escobar by watching the police. They also hid information from the authorities, and did whatever else they could do to protect him.\n\nDespite his popular image among Medellín's community, Escobar was well-known among his business associates to be a calm and sensible partner to deal with. He preferred to use his money before his gun. His brother said that Pablo Escobar knew that money generated more loyalty than fear. Violence was often unnecessary.\n\nThe Colombian cartels quickly managed to make Colombia the world’s capital for murder with 25,100 violent deaths in 1991 and 27,100 in 1992. Escobar gave money to his hitmen as a reward for killing police officers. 600 officers died this way. Today, other countries, such as Guatemala, South Africa and Venezuela have more murders than Colombia.\n\nIn March 1976 when he was 26, Escobar married Maria Victoria. She was 11 years younger than him. Together they had two children: Juan Pablo and Manuela. Escobar built and lived in a luxurious house with his family. He wanted to construct a Greek-style citadel near it. They began the construction of the citadel but never finished. The ranch, the zoo and the citadel were expropriated by the government. They were given to poor families in the 1990s under a law called \"extinción de dominio\" (domain extinction). The property has been converted into a theme park.\n\nAfter the murder of Luis Carlos Galán, a presidential candidate, the administration of César Gaviria moved against Escobar and the drug cartels. Eventually, the government talked with Escobar. They wanted to him to capitulate and to stop all criminal activity.\n\nEscobar declared an end to a series of previous violence and terrorism, and turned himself in. He was held in what became his own luxurious private prison, \"La Catedral\". Before Escobar gave himself up, the government approved the extradition of Colombian citizens. This was controversial. People suspected that Escobar or other drug lords influenced members of the government.\n\nEscobar continued his criminal activities. He began to influence the media. The government discovered that Escobar was continuing his criminal activities within La Catedral. They wanted to move Escobar to another prison on July 22, 1992. Escobar's influence allowed him to discover the plan in advance and escape. He was still worried that he could be sent to the United States.\n\nIn 1992, United States Special Forces joined the manhunt for Escobar. They trained and advised a special Colombian police task force, called the Search Bloc. It was created to locate Escobar. Later, as the conflict between Escobar and the governments grew, a group known as \"Los Pepes\" (Los Perseguidos por Pablo Escobar) formed. His rivals and former associates financed it. They wanted to find Escobar. Los Pepes carried out a bloody campaign and more than 300 of Escobar's associates were killed. Also, a lot of his cartel's property was destroyed.\n\nRumors said that members of the Search Bloc and of the Colombian and the United States intelligence agencies cooperated with \"Los Pepes\". One of the leaders of \"Los Pepes\" was Diego Murillo Bejarano, also known as \"Don Berna\". Before, he was a Medellín Cartel associate.\n\nThe fight against Escobar ended on December 2, 1993. The police used radio triangulation technology to find Escobar. The United States provided this technology to a Colombian electronic surveillance team. The group was led by Brigadier Hugo Martinez. The team found him hiding in a middle-class barrio in Medellín. With the permission from authorities, a firefight with Escobar and his bodyguard, Alvaro de Jesús Agudelo AKA \"El Limón\", happened. They tried to escape by running across the roofs of nearby houses to reach a back street, but both were shot and killed by Colombian National Police. Escobar suffered gunshots to the leg, torso, and the fatal one in his ear. It is not known who actually fired the final shot into Escobar's head. It is also unknown whether this shot was made during the gunfight or as part of possible execution. There is wide speculation about this. Some of the family members believe that Escobar could have committed suicide. His two brothers, Roberto Escobar and Fernando Sánchez Arellano, believe that he shot himself through the ears. \"He committed suicide, he did not get killed. During all the years they went after him, he would say to me every day that if he was really cornered without a way out, he would shoot himself through the ears.\" The autopsy showed that there was no stippling pattern found around the ear, which suggested that the shot which killed Escobar was fired from further than an arm's length away.\n\nAfter Escobar's death and the fragmentation of the Medellín Cartel, the rival Cali Cartel rose to power.\n\nOn October 28, 2006, Escobar's body was exhumed by request of his nephew Nicolás Escobar. This was two days after the death of mother Hermilda Gaviria, who opposed the exhumation. Nicolás Escobar wanted to verify that the body in the tomb was in fact that of Escobar. Escobar's nephew also collect DNA for a paternity test claim. According to the report by the \"El Tiempo\" newspaper, Escobar's widow Maria Victoria was present recording the exhumation with a video camera.\n\nOn July 4, 2006, Virginia Vallejo, the television news speaker offered information in the trial against former Senator Alberto Santofimio to the Colombian Attorney General Mario Iguaran. Vallejo was romantically involved with Escobar between 1983 and 1987. The Senator was accused of conspiracy in the 1989 murder of Presidential Candidate Luis Carlos Galán. Iguaran said that, although Vallejo contacted his office on the 4th, the judge had decided to close the trial on the 9th. This was several weeks before the prospective closing date and, in (Iguaran's) opinion, \"too soon\".\n", "id": "303330", "title": "Pablo Escobar"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303335", "text": "Art Institute of Chicago\n\nThe Art Institute of Chicago (AIC) is an art museum in Grant Park, Chicago. The Art Institute owns one of the world's best collections of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art. It also owns important American art, Old Masters, European and American decorative arts, Asian art and modern and contemporary art. The museum is linked with the School of the Art Institute of Chicago. James Cuno is its Director and President. Its buildings have one million square feet (92,903,040 m) of space. It is the second largest art museum in the United States. Only the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City has more space.\n\nIn 1866, a group of 35 artists founded the Chicago Academy of Design in a studio on Dearborn Street. The group wanted to run a free school with its own art gallery. The organization was modeled after European art academies, such as the Royal Academy. People who worked there were called Academians and Associate Academians. The Academy's charter was granted in March 1867.\n\nClasses started in 1868. Classes met every day. Students paid the school US$10 per month. The new Academy was a success. The school next built a five story stone building at 66 West Adams Street, which opened on November 22, 1870.\n\nWhen the Great Chicago Fire destroyed the building in 1871, the Academy began to owe a lot of money. The Academy tried and failed by renting facilities. By 1878, the Academy owed $10,000. Members tried to rescue the weak institution by making deals with local businesses. Some people gave up in 1879 and started a new new organization, named the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts. When the Chicago Academy of Design went bankrupt the same year, the new Chicago Academy of Fine Arts bought its assets in an auction.\nIn 1882, the Chicago Academy of Fine Arts changed its name to the current name, Art Institute of Chicago. The same year, it purchased a lot on the corner of Michigan Avenue and Van Buren Street for $45,000. The school rented the property's existing building, and a new building was constructed behind it to house the school's facilities.\n\nWhile Chicago planned how to host the 1892–93 World's Columbian Exposition (World's Fair), the Art Institute wanted a new building. The Art Institute proposed that the city build a permanent building on the lakefront for the fair and give the new building to the Institute afterwards. The city agreed, and the building was completed in time for the second year of the fair. Construction costs were paid by selling the Michigan/Van Buren property. On October 31, 1893, the Institute moved into the new building. This building is now called the Allerton Building. It faces Michigan Avenue on the west and the Illinois Central Railroad track on the east.\n\nFrom the 1900s to the 1960s, the school offered with the Logan Family (members of the board) the Logan Medal of the Arts. The Logan Medal became one of the most distinguished awards presented to artists in the US. In 1924, the museum building expanded to the east by bridging over the railroad tracks with a new wing on the east side of the tracks.\n\nBetween 1959 and 1970, some people did not think that photos (art and documentary photography) were serious art that should be shown in art galleries. The Institute fought to change people's minds to accept such photos. Photo curator Hugh Edwards lead this fight.\n\nAs Director of the museum starting in the early 1980s, James N. Wood conducted a major expansion of its collection and oversaw a major renovation and expansion project for its facilities. \"The New York Times\" called Wood \"one of the most respected museum leaders in the country\". Wood created major exhibitions of works by Paul Gauguin, Claude Monet and Vincent Van Gogh that set records for attendance at the museum. He retired from the museum in 2004.\n\nIn 2006, the Art Institute began building its new \"The Modern Wing\". The new wing is on the southwest corner of Columbus and Monroe. Pritzker Prize winning architect Renzo Piano designed the new wing. It opened to the public on May 16, 2009. The building makes the Art Institute the second largest art museum in the United States. The building houses the museum’s world-renowned collections of 20th- and 21st-century art, specifically modern European painting and sculpture, contemporary art, architecture and design, and photography.\n\nThe collection of the Art Institute of Chicago covers more than 5,000 years of human expression from cultures around the world. The museum owns more than 260,000 works of art. The art institute holds works of art ranging from as early as the Japanese prints to the most updated American art.\n\nToday, the museum is most famous for its collections of Impressionist, Post-Impressionist, and American paintings. There are more than 30 paintings by Claude Monet in the Impressionist and Post-Impressionist collection. These include six of Monet's \"Haystacks\" and a number of his \"Water Lilies\". Also in the collection are important works by Pierre-Auguste Renoir such as \"Two Sisters (On the Terrace)\" and Henri Matisse's \"The Bathers\", Paul Cézanne's \"The Basket of Apples\", and \"Madame Cézanne in a Yellow Chair.\" \"At the Moulin Rouge\" by Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec is another highlight, as are Georges Seurat's \"Sunday Afternoon on the Island of La Grande Jatte\" and Gustave Caillebotte's \"Paris Street; Rainy Day\". Non-French paintings of the Impressionist and Post-Impressionist collection include Vincent Van Gogh's \"Bedroom in Arles\" and \"Self-portrait, 1887\". The museum also has American art works including Grant Wood's \"American Gothic,\" Edward Hopper's \"Nighthawks\" and Mary Cassatt's \"The Child's Bath.\" In September 2010, the Art Institute launched its first mobile application. This application is a catalogue (guide) to this Impressionist and Post-Impressionist collection.\n\nThe Art Institute also shows a number of works that are not paintings. The Thorne Miniature Rooms hold 1:12 scale interiors showcasing American, European and Asian architectural and furniture styles from the Middle Ages to the 1930s (when the rooms were constructed).\n\nThe Touch Gallery of the museum is specially designed for people who cannot see. It has several works which museum guests are encouraged to experience though the sense of touch instead of through sight as well as specially designed description plates written in braille. The American Decorative Arts galleries contain furniture pieces designed by Frank Lloyd Wright and Charles and Ray Eames. The Ancient Egyptian, Greek, and Roman galleries hold the mummy and mummy case of Paankhenamun, as well as several gold and silver coins.\n\nThe Terra Museum (now the Terra Foundation) was a separate Chicago art museum that closed in October 2004. Since April 2005, approximately fifty paintings from that museum have been on loan to the Department of American Art at the Art Institute of Chicago. The combined collections of the Terra and the Art Institute are located in a new suite of galleries. They provide one of the nation’s most comprehensive presentations of American art. The foundation’s collection of American works on paper are in the Department of Prints and Drawings at the Art Institute.\n\nArt Institute of Chicago promotes the study of art made by African-Americans. Its collection provide a historical illustration of the progress made by African Americans. Works also show African Americans' continuing struggle. The collection includes items dating from the Civil War era, from the Harlem Renaissance, from the civil-rights struggles following World War II and from the contemporary period.\n\nThe Art Institute owns a collection of medieval art made in Europe during the years 800-1300 AD. It features both religious works and daily life objects. It includes painting and sculpture, luxury metalwork and stained glass, textiles and manuscript illumination. The museum owns major collections of arms and armor, jewelry, ceramics, and tapestries. The museum owns items from the Renaissance era (1300-1600) in France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and the Netherlands.\nShepley, Rutan and Coolidge of Boston, Massachusetts designed the Allerton Building in the Beaux-Arts style. It was built for the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition as the World's Congress Auxiliary Building with the intent that the Art Institute occupy the building after the fair closed.\n\nTwo bronze lion statues are on the sides of the Art Institute's western entrance on Michigan Avenue. Their sculptor Edward L. Kemeys gave them unofficial names: the south lion is \"stands in an attitude of defiance,\" and the north lion is \"on the prowl.\" When a Chicago sports team plays in the championships of their respective league (that is, the Super Bowl or Stanley Cup Finals, not the entire playoffs), the lions are frequently dressed in that team's uniform. Evergreen wreaths are placed around their necks during the Christmas season.\n\nThe east entrance of the museum is marked by the stone arch entrance that was moved from the old Chicago Stock Exchange building. Louis Sullivan designed the Exchange in 1894. The Exchange was torn down in 1972. But saved portions of the original trading room were rebuilt inside the Art Institute.\nThe Art Institute building is unusual because it is two sets of buildings linked by a two-story bridge over open-air railroad tracks. The construction of Millenium Park moved the Metra Electric and South Shore railroad lines underground. This made room for the new Modern Wing and exterior courtyards. Before this change, the lower level of the bridge building was formerly the windowless Gunsaulus hall, but is now home to the Alsdorf Galleries showcasing Indian, Southeast Asian and Himalayan Art. The renovation added windows facing north toward Millennium Park. Renzo Piano designed the gallery space in conjunction with his design of the Modern Wing. The gallery features the same window screening used there to protect the art from direct sunlight. The upper level of the bridge building formerly held the modern European galleries, But it was renovated in 2008. The galleries now show Impressionist and Post-Impressionist art.\n\nOn May 16, 2009, the Art Institute opened the Modern Wing, the largest expansion in the museum's history. The addition, designed by Renzo Piano, makes the Art Institute the second-largest museum in the US. The Modern Wing is home to the museum's collection of early 20th-century European art, including Pablo Picasso’s \"The Old Guitarist\", Henri Matisse’s \"Bathers by a River\", and René Magritte’s \"Time Transfixed.\" The Modern wing also houses contemporary art from after 1960; new photography, video media, architecture and design galleries. Those galleries show original renderings by Frank Lloyd Wright, Ludwig Mies van der Rohe and Bruce Goff. The Modern wing also has temporary exhibition space; shops and classrooms; a cafe and a restaurant, \"Terzo Piano\", that overlooks Millennium Park from its terrace. In addition, the Nichols Bridgeway connects a sculpture garden on the roof of the Modern wing with the adjacent Millennium Park to the north and a courtyard designed by Gustafson Guthrie Nichol.\nIn 2009, the Modern Wing won a Chicago Innovation Awards.\n\nThe Ryerson & Burnham Libraries are on the ground floor of the museum. The Libraries' collections cover all periods of art, but is most known for its large collection of 18th-20th century architecture. The Libraries serve the museum staff, college, and university students, and the general public. The Friends of the Libraries is a support group for the Libraries. It offers events and special tours for its members.\n\nNote that other notable works are in the collection but the following examples are ones in the public domain and for which pictures are available. \n\n\n", "id": "303335", "title": "Art Institute of Chicago"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303336", "text": "Kerberos (moon)\n\nKerberos (formerly known as S/2011 (134340) 1 and informally as P4) is a small moon of the dwarf planet Pluto. The satellite was discovered on 28 June 2011. It is the fourth moon of Pluto to be discovered. The others are Charon, discovered in 1978, Nix and Hydra, which were discovered in 2005, and Styx, discovered in 2012.\n\nThe moon was discovered by a Hubble Space Telescope observing team led by Mark Showalter, while they were trying to find out if Pluto had any rings. Kerberos was first seen in a photo taken with Hubble's Wide Field Camera 3, on June 28, 2011. More photos were taken on July 3 and July 18, 2011, to confirm that it exists. The moon was officially verified and announced on July 20, 2011. Kerberos was not seen in earlier Hubble photos because the exposure times were shorter. The moon may have appeared as a very faint smudge in photos taken in 2006, but was ignored because it was not clear. Kerberos is possibly also visible in images taken in 2010.\n\nKerberos has an estimated diameter of 13–34 km (8–21 miles).\nKerberos and Pluto's other moons are thought to have been created by a cosmic collision between the dwarf planet and another celestial body early in the Solar System's history.\n", "id": "303336", "title": "Kerberos (moon)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303344", "text": "Defence against predators\n\nFor most animals, defence against predators is vital. Being eaten is not the only threat to life: parasites and diseases may also be fatal. But animals, especially small animals, are often eaten. Since life is about reproduction, anything that keeps a creature alive long enough for it to reproduce will be selected for. The next generation comes from the fertilised eggs of the previous generation.\n\nNot surprisingly, then, animals have developed a wide range of defences against predation. Some of these defences apply also to plants: herbivory on plants can be very damaging, and reduce a plant's fertility. Many plants have some defence against herbivores.\n\nPrimary defences make it less likely that there will be a meeting between the predator and the prey. In many cases this means the predator has not noticed or recognised the prey.\n\nThere are various definitions of what a primary defence is:\n\nIf the prey is good to eat, it must either make itself scarce, or it must look as though it is not good to eat.\n\nDefences may be of two kinds. Either the prey is uneatable because it has some kind of chemical defence, or its body is protected by spines or stings. In that case the predator will reject it so long as the prey advertises its defence.\nThe second kind of defence is very obvious. It is to carry armour and/or offensive weapons like horns. These are permanent visible defences. For larger prey animals this can be effective if linked to another defence. Thus, in natural habitats, elephants have tusks, and they also have huge size. Antelope have horns, and can also run fast. Almost all large herbivores live in herds, which undoubtedly is safer than living alone.\n\nThese work when a predator detects a prey, or when a prey notices a predator. The function of secondary defences is to increase the chance of the prey surviving the encounter (meeting).\n\nEverything costs something. All defences incur costs. For survival, an animals needs food, and needs to stay alive to reproduce. Energy and time spent on defence can be considerable, but justified if it makes reproduction more likely. There are these kinds of costs:\n\n", "id": "303344", "title": "Defence against predators"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303346", "text": "Boomtown\n\nA boomtown is a place that has very quick population and economic growth. Boomtowns are usually mining towns where an important mineral resource such as gold, silver, or petroleum has been found. It can happen, for example in a gold rush. Gold rush towns usually shrink and disappear after the gold is dug up. They become ghost towns.\n\nThe word can also be used for places that grow for other reasons. This can be the town being near a major city, in a nice climate or near a popular attraction. \n", "id": "303346", "title": "Boomtown"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303350", "text": "Alexander (movie)\n\nAlexander is a 2004 epic drama war movie about Alexander III of Macedon. It was directed by Oliver Stone.\n\nThe budget of this movie was about 155 million dollars. Its box office was about 167 million dollars.\n\nThe story is about Alexander III of Macedon and his battles against Great Persian Empire and his victories, in the begging, movie shows early life of Alexander and what happened in his young ages and what his father King Philip II did. When Philip died Alexander was King of Macedon and decided to fight with Persian Empire and at last he conquered Persia. When he wanted conquer India in a battle he wounded and died.\n\n", "id": "303350", "title": "Alexander (movie)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303352", "text": "Karaj\n\nKaraj (Persian: کرج) is an Iranian city and main city of Alborz province. The city has about 1,370,000 inhabitants.\n\nKaraj is 6th largest city of Iran.\n\n\n", "id": "303352", "title": "Karaj"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303356", "text": "Plymouth, Montserrat\n\nPlymouth was a town in Montserrat. It was founded in the 1700s and named for Plymouth, England. It served as the capital of Montserrat. It was also the island's main port. It was destroyed by a volcano in 1997. \n", "id": "303356", "title": "Plymouth, Montserrat"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303359", "text": "Cognitive bias\n\nA cognitive bias happens when someone makes a bad choice that they think is a good choice. This bias is an important part of the study of cognitive psychology. Cognitive biases are often because of evolution. Some behaviors were good for primitive humans and animals that seem foolish today. The scientific method limits the results of cognitive bias.\n", "id": "303359", "title": "Cognitive bias"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303362", "text": "Definitely Maybe\n\nDefinitely Maybe is the first album by Oasis. It was released under the label Creation Records on the August 30, 1994.\n", "id": "303362", "title": "Definitely Maybe"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303369", "text": "SN 1987A\n\nSN 1987A was a supernova that was in a small galaxy that is orbiting our Milky Way galaxy. The supernova was 168,000 light years away, which means it happened 168,00 years ago in 1987 when it was discovered. It was close enough that scientists found neutrinos before the light came to Earth. SN 1987A is the only supernova that has been that close in modern times and was the brightest object seen from Earth in over 400 years.There have been many others that were closer but they were before scientists had the tools to help them understand what was happening. \n", "id": "303369", "title": "SN 1987A"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303370", "text": "SN 1572\n\nSN 1572 was a supernova seen in 1572 that could be seen in the constellation Cassiopeia. It is sometimes called \"Tycho's Nova\" or \"Tycho's Star\" since Tycho Brahe studied it. The supernova became visible in November 1572 and stayed visible until 1574. SN 1572 is one of only about ten supernovas that could be seen without telescopes. \n", "id": "303370", "title": "SN 1572"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303371", "text": "SN 1604\n\nSN 1604 was a supernova seen in 1604. It was seen in the constellation Ophiuchus. SN 1604 is sometimes called Kepler's Nova or Kepler's Supernova or Kepler's Star since Johannes Kepler studied it. SN 1604 is the last supernova to have been seen in our galaxy. \n", "id": "303371", "title": "SN 1604"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303372", "text": "Scott Stewart (director)\n\nScott Stewart (alias Scott Charles Stewart) is an American movie director, writer, movie producer and special effects maker.\n\nStewart worked at the special effects business called The Orphanage. Stewart directed and wrote the movie \"Legion\". \"Legion\" is an action movie and horror movie about the end of the world, also called the apocalypse. He directed the vampire and western horror movie \"Priest\". He has had actor Paul Bettany star in his first two movies.\n\n\n", "id": "303372", "title": "Scott Stewart (director)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303378", "text": "Rhinoplasty\n\nRhinoplasty is an operation performed to change the shape, size or appearance of the human nose.\n\n", "id": "303378", "title": "Rhinoplasty"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303380", "text": "Chinstrap penguin\n\nThe chinstrap penguin (\"Pygoscelis antarctica\") is a penguin that gets its name from the narrow band of black feathers that goes under their \"chin\" from ear to ear. They are sometimes called the ‘stone-cracker penguin’ because of their squeaky and high pitched call. Chinstrap penguins are found in polar, shallow seas and coastal areas. Some penguins are born very pale and are called ‘Blonde’ penguins. There are more chinstrap penguins than any other penguins in the world.\n\nThey feed mainly on krill and fish. The chinstrap penguins make nests in round shapes made from small stones and take turns in sitting on the eggs, they can be left on the nest for 10 days. \n\nThese little penguins are only about tall and weigh about . Chinstraps may be small, but they are the boldest penguins of all.\n\n", "id": "303380", "title": "Chinstrap penguin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303389", "text": "Adélie penguin\n\nThe Adélie penguin (\"Pygoscelis adeliae\") is a penguin that is all black except for a white chest and belly, and a white ring around their eyes. There are about 2.5 million Adélie penguins in the Southern Ocean around Antarctica. Adélie penguins travel the furthest to breed because they build their nests from stones and need to find stones. Adélies come ashore to breed in the summer. In the winter, they live on ice that floats off the Antarctic shore.\n\nAdélie parents take turns keeping their chicks warm and fed. While one watches the nest, the other goes into the ocean to catch krill. The penguins carry the krill back to the nest in their stomachs. Then they regurgitate it to feed their chicks.\n\nMost Adélie penguins incubate two eggs at a time. The little chicks hatch out at about the same time. One is usually stronger than the other and has a better chance of surviving.\n\nWhen first born, the chicks are kept warm by their parents. But after two or three weeks, they grow a thick, woolly gray down. Then they join other chicks in creches, or nursery groups.\n\nAdélie penguins are the smallest penguins in Antarctica. They weigh only about 8.5 pounds (the weight of a house cat). They are about 28 inches tall.\n\n", "id": "303389", "title": "Adélie penguin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303390", "text": "Katabatic wind\n\nA katabatic wind is a very strong wind which blows downhill. They can be warms winds like the \"föhn\" wind on the north slopes of the Alps in Europe or the Chinook which blows down the Rockies in the US. They can also be very cold winds like those in Antarctica or Greenland. They are made when cold, dense air flows down from the ice cap to the coast. Sometimes these winds are called \"fall winds\". Along the Adriatic coast the cold katabatic wind is called the \"bora\", and in France it is called the \"mistral\".\n", "id": "303390", "title": "Katabatic wind"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303395", "text": "Galápagos penguin\n\nGalápagos penguins (\"Spheniscus mendiculus\") live on the Galápagos Islands. Because these islands are at the equator, the waters are warm not all penguins live in cold climates. They do not migrate.\n\nGalapagos penguins have two bands of brown feathers on their faces and their beaks are thin and slender.\n\nThey weigh five pounds and are one and a half feet tall.\n", "id": "303395", "title": "Galápagos penguin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303396", "text": "Macaroni penguin\n\nMacaroni penguins are crested penguins that get their names from their crest. Macaroni penguins are known for their black faces and the orange-yellow crests that create a band across their foreheads.\nMacaroni penguins live on islands on the edge of Antarctica, as well as on islands that lie south of Africa and the Americas. They make their nests on cliffs and hillsides.\n\nMacaroni penguins weigh 10 pounds and are a little over 2 feet tall. As predators, Macaroni penguins eat fish, squid, and krill, but they mostly eat krill as their food. Mothers and fathers of their chicks will feed their young by regurgitating the food into their mouth. Penguins get their food by diving into the ocean and chasing after their food. Penguins can survive up to 40 days without food. When penguins go hunting for their food, they swim from 50-200 feet down in the water. Sometimes when they are hunting at night, they swim up to 300 feet. But that is really rare. They usually swim for 2 minutes before coming up for air. Macaroni penguin chicks don't get any food until they are a week old.\n\nMacaroni penguins usually live on bumpy or flat ground. They don't really live in places with many plants, but some penguins make their nests around grass. Macaroni penguins generally live by the water because they eat seafood. \n\nMacaroni penguins have many different ways of communicating. They might make noisy, shrieking sounds or they might bobble their heads. Sometimes, they even flap their wings. They make their head feathers wave when they are excited.\n\nPenguins use their feet and tail to help them swim. They can swim up to 15 miles per hour. Swimming that fast helps them get away from predators that might eat them. Penguins spend a lot of their time swimming. Penguins are slow on land because they waddle their feet instead of walking. They sway their body from side to side while they waddle their feet. Sometimes, they also slide down hills on their belly which is much faster than waddling. Sliding helps them get to places faster.\n", "id": "303396", "title": "Macaroni penguin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303398", "text": "Little penguin\n\nLittle penguins (\"Eudyptula minor\") are also called fairy penguin, little blue penguin, or blue penguins. They are a species of penguin that lives near the coasts of Australia and New Zealand. The little penguin is the smallest of all penguins.\n\nThe penguins weigh around 0.9 kg (2 lbs) and are up to 40 cm (15 in) tall. On average, they are 33 cm (13 in) tall. \n\nThe little penguin is slate gray or indigo along the head and back, with a white belly and neck. The flippers - wings - are dark blue, with a white edge along the back. Males and females of the species are very similar but males have a curve on the end of their beak. Juvenile little penguins, which are younger than adults, have lighter colors. Little penguin chicks have blue-grey bellies and brown feathers.\n\nOriginally, the Eudyptula genus includeded two different species of penguin, the little penguin (\"E. minor\") and the fairy penguin (\"E. undina\"). In 1976, scientists combined these two species into one species (\"E. minor\") with six subspecies. However, new research on the penguins' mitochondrial DNA shows that the DNA of populations in the Australia and southern New Zealand region are very different from those of little penguins in northern New Zealand. Because of those discoveries, some researchers still argue about whether these two populations should be divided into two different species. Another common argument is over the classification of the white-flippered penguin. While most believe the white-flippered penguin is a subspecies of the little penguin, some argue that it is a different species. Others argue that it is not a subspecies at all, but a morph that just has different colors.\n\nThe six subspecies of the little penguin are:\n\nThe little penguin has different common names depending on their location. In Australia, they are often called fairy penguins because the Australia population was originally considered a part of that species. In New Zealand, they are called little blue penguins or blue penguins because their gray feathers look more blue in the sun. They are also called 'Kororā' in Māori, the language of New Zealand natives.\n\nLittle penguins live in sandy burrows at night and go to the ocean during the day. They can be found right around the south coast of Australia, from Perth in the west to Coffs Harbour on the east coast. They are found all around Tasmania. The largest little penguin colonies in New South Wales are on Montague Island, Tollgate Island and Brush Island.\n\nThe little penguin is known for its wide variety of calls. In fact, one of the main ways scientists identify different little penguin subspecies is by the differences in the noises the penguin groups make.\n\nBecause little penguins live together in large groups, called colonies, it is important they can tell each other apart. Little penguins can find their mates, even in crowded and loud areas, by the distinctive call that each penguin makes.\n\nLittle penguins have one call that changes to mean different things. Most calls have a rhythm of two repeated sounds.\n\nLittle penguins are the only penguin species that breeds nocturnally - that is, at night.\n\nAt Phillip Island off the coast of Victoria, there is a \"Penguin Parade\" where lights and viewing stands have been set up so that people can watch the penguins return to their homes at dusk. Over 500,000 visitors from around the world visit each year.\n", "id": "303398", "title": "Little penguin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303405", "text": "Jared Leto\n\nJared Joseph Leto (born December 26, 1971) is an American actor and musician. he is known for acting in movies such as \"Fight Club\"; \"Girl, Interrupted\"; \"Panic Room\"; \"American Psycho\"; \"Alexander\"; \"Requiem for a Dream\"; \"Lord of War\",\" Prefontaine\", \"Mr. Nobody\" and \"Suicide Squad\".\n\nHe started a rock band called Thirty Seconds to Mars in 1998 with his brother Shannon Leto. Leto is the singer. The band has released four albums.\n\n", "id": "303405", "title": "Jared Leto"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303407", "text": "Egyptian temple\n\nEgyptian temples were buildings for the official worship of the gods in ancient Egypt. These temples were seen as houses for the gods. Sometimes they were specially for the pharaohs (kings). Within these temples the Egyptians performed a variety of rituals of the Egyptian religion. People would give offerings (gifts) to the gods. They would show the stories of the gods through festivals. These festivals would also help normal life to continue. The pharaohs were responsible for providing the temples and caring for the gods. This required a lot of labor and material for building and maintenance. It was necessary for the pharaohs to give this responsibility to priests. Most of the ordinary people did not take part in ceremonies and could not enter special parts of the temple. The temple was an important religious place for all classes of Egyptians. They went there to pray, give offerings, and seek guidance from the god dwelling within.\n\nThe most important part of the temple was the sanctuary. The sanctuary was the most secret and special place and usually had a statue of a god. In the early years of Egypt, about 3000 BCE, the temples were small. Priests and pharaohs added more rooms and the temples became bigger. The rooms would have a lot of decoration of the religion. By the time of the New Kingdom (c.1550-1070 BCE) the temples were huge buildings made of stone. The buildings were arranged in special ways for the religion. The temple would have halls, open areas, and very large entrance pillars. Some of these temples still exist today. Beyond the main temple was an outer wall. There would be other buildings inside the walls.\n\nA large temple also had a lot of land and employed thousands of ordinary people to supply its needs. Temples were also economic centers. The priests who managed the temples had a lot of influence. They would sometimes oppose the king.\n\nTemple-building continued in Egypt even when the nation declined and was ruled by the Roman Empire. Christianity brought more pressure on Egyptian religion. The last temple was closed in 550 CE. For hundreds of years, the ancient buildings were damaged and neglected. In the early 19th century, many people in Europe became interested in ancient Egypt. The study of ancient Egypt became known as the science of Egyptology. Egyptologists continue to study the surviving temples and the remains of destroyed ones. They tell us a lot about ancient Egyptian society.\n\nDozens of temples survive today. Some have become famous tourist attractions that bring money to modern Egypt.\n", "id": "303407", "title": "Egyptian temple"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303410", "text": "Coffee (color)\n\nCoffee is a brownish color that is like the color of a ripe but unroasted coffee beans. Different types of coffee beans have different colors when unroasted--the color coffee represents an average. \nThe first time \"coffee\" was used as a color name in English was in 1695. \nThe source of the color displayed at right is the ISCC-NBS Color List (see Page C, Coffee, color sample #58). \n\nThe first recorded use of \"Cafe au Lait\" as a color name in English was in 1839. \nThe source of the color \"Cafe au Lait\" displayed below is the ISCC-NBS Color List (see Page C, Coffee, color sample #57). \n\nThe first recorded use of \"Cafe Noir\" as a color name in English was in 1928. The source of the color \"Cafe Noir\" displayed below is the ISCC-NBS Color List (see Page C, Coffee, color sample #81). \n\n\n\n", "id": "303410", "title": "Coffee (color)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303423", "text": "Dodge City\n\nDodge City is the county seat of Ford County, Kansas, United States. Named after nearby Fort Dodge, the city is famous in American culture for its history as a wild frontier town of the Old West. The 2010 census showed the city population was 27,340.\n\nIn the 1880s Dodge City became a boomtown, with thousands of cattle passing annually through its stockyards. The peak years of the cattle trade in Dodge City were from 1883 to 1884. During that time the town grew tremendously. Dodge City had more famous (and infamous) gunfighters working at one time or another than any other town in the West, many of whom participated in the Dodge City War of 1883. It also boasted the usual array of saloons, gambling halls, and brothels: they were set up to separate a cowboy from his hard-earned cash. Famous were the Long Branch Saloon and the China Doll brothel.\n\nMeat packing is the main industry in Dodge City. The city also has farm implement manufacturing, and is a supply center for area agriculture. Livestock-raising is a major activity while wheat and sorghum are the area's main crops. \n\nIn addition, a local tourism industry, including a casino resort, has developed to capitalize on Dodge City's history as an Old West cowtown. The service sector accounts for much of the rest of the local economy with local government, schools, retail stores, and health care providers as the city's other major employers.\n\nFour U.S. Highways meet in Dodge City: U.S. Route 50, U.S. Route 56, U.S. Route 283, and U.S. Route 400. Dodge City was located on the National Old Trails Road, also known as the Ocean-to-Ocean Highway, that was established in 1912.\n\nDodge City Regional Airport is about 2 miles (3 km) east of the city. Three railroads serve Dodge City.\n", "id": "303423", "title": "Dodge City"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303438", "text": "Juventus Stadium\n\nJuventus Stadium is a sports stadium in Turin, Italy. It is home to the club Juventus FC. It can hold 41,254 people. It was built on the site of the Stadio delle Alpi, and opened in the summer of 2011.\n", "id": "303438", "title": "Juventus Stadium"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303444", "text": "Andrea Agnelli\n\nAndrea Agnelli (born December 6, 1975 in Turin) is an Italian businessman. In 2010 he became president of Italian football club Juventus F.C.. He is an Executive Member of the European Club Association. He is also a board member of FIAT and Exor. \n", "id": "303444", "title": "Andrea Agnelli"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303446", "text": "Princeton, New Jersey\n\nPrinceton is a community in Mercer County, New Jersey, United States. It is best known as the location of Princeton University, which has been sited in the community since 1756. Although Princeton is a \"college town\", there are other important institutions in the area, including the Institute for Advanced Study, Educational Testing Service (ETS), Opinion Research Corporation, Siemens Corporate Research, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Sarnoff Corporation, FMC Corporation, The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, Amrep, Church and Dwight, Berlitz International, and Dow Jones & Company. \n\nPrinceton is roughly same distance from both New York City and Philadelphia. Since the nineteenth century, it has been connected by rail to both cities by the Princeton Branch rail line to the nearby Princeton Junction Station on Amtrak's Northeast Corridor.. Princeton is close to many major highways that serve both cities, and receives some TV and radio broadcasts from each.\nThe Princeton train station was moved from under Blair Hall to its present location on University Place in 1918. Commuting to New York from Princeton became commonplace after World War II. New Jersey Transit provides shuttle service between the Princeton and Princeton Junction stations; the train is locally called the \"Dinky\", and has also been known as the \"PJ&B\" (for \"Princeton Junction and Back\"). Two train cars, or sometimes just one, are used.\n\nNew Jersey's capital is the city of Trenton, but the governor's official residence has been in Princeton since 1945, when Morven in the borough became the first Governor's mansion. It was later replaced by the larger Drumthwacket, a colonial mansion in the township. Morven became a museum property of the New Jersey Historical Society.\n\nIn 1783, it was the capital of the United States for a few months.\n\n", "id": "303446", "title": "Princeton, New Jersey"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303448", "text": "Mugen Motorsports\n\nMugen Motorsports (M-TEC Co., Ltd) () is a Japanese company. It was formed in 1973 by Hirotoshi Honda and Masao Kimura. Hirotoshi Honda is the son of Honda Motor Company founder Soichiro Honda. Mugen is an engine tuner (performance improvement) and parts builder. They are closely linked with Honda. Mugen has never been owned by Honda. Mugen means \"Without Limit\", or \"Unlimited\". It is common to placed word \"Power\" after Mugen to say \"Unlimited Power\". \n\nThe company tunes and races Honda vehicles in the Super GT championship. They also sell parts to amateur racers. Mugen was involved in Formula 3000 championships in 1990 and 1991. This led Mugen to join Formula One. They supplied engines from 1992 to 2000. They also supplied the only engines for Formula Nippon from 1996 until 2005.\n\nIn 1986, Formula 3000 was introduced into Japan. Mugen joined with Honda to build an F3000 engine. It was introduced in the 1987 season and leased to 14 teams. In 1988, Mugen won four of the top five places in the Japanese F3000 championship. In 1989, Mugen entered European F3000 with the MF308 engine. They won the championship with Jean Alesi driving a Reynard. The same year the company produced its own prototype 3.5 L V8 Formula One engine, codenamed MF350.\n\nIn 1988, Mugen started tuning Honda engines for use in Formula Three. They won the Japanese series with Akihiko Nakaya, and in 1990 expanded to Europe. Mugen won its first Formula Three championships in Europe. They took the French title with Eric Hélary, and the British crown with Mika Häkkinen. They also won the title in 1991 with Rubens Barrichello.\n\nIn 1991, Mugen built Honda V10 engines for Tyrrell. In 1992 the engine was renamed to Mugen MF351H. The engine was used by the Footwork team in 1992 and 1993. \n\nIn 1994, Mugen moved to Team Lotus with the new Lotus 109. The team was underfunded and the 109 chassis was late arriving. The car and its engine was scored a single point. At the end of the year, Lotus closed down.\n\nMugen switched to the Ligier team in 1995. In 1996 Mugen won its first Formula One race. The 3.0 L engine, codenamed MF301H, won at the 1996 Monaco Grand Prix with Olivier Panis driving.\n\nLigier was taken over by Alain Prost in 1997, and renamed Prost Grand Prix. When Prost changed Peugeot engines in 1998, Mugen reached a two-year agreement with Jordan Grand Prix. The 1998 season saw a 1-2 finish at Spa-Francorchamps with Damon Hill and Ralf Schumacher.\n\nIn 1999, Heinz-Harald Frentzen won twice and Jorden finished the constuctors championship in third place. In 2000, the Honda Motor Company announced that it would be returning for Formula One. Honda would supply its own engines in 2000 with British American Racing. At the end of the 2000 season, Mugen pulled out of F1.\n\nIn 1998, Mugen entered sports car racing. They built several NSX race cars. In 2000, the Mugen/Dome team was champion.\n\nIn 2001, in the JGTC, the Mugen NSX won two races. In June, the company announced the a new 4.0 L V8. The MF408S was built for the main prototype class in the 24 Hours of Le Mans and American Le Mans Series.\n\nMugen has built concept Honda vehicles. Some models are sold in Japanese domestic market.\n\n\n\n() (Results in bold indicate pole position; results in \"italics\" indicate fastest lap.) \n\nPole position in Bold.\nFastest lap in \"Italics\".\n\n", "id": "303448", "title": "Mugen Motorsports"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303452", "text": "Iraq at the Olympics\n\nIraq was first at the Olympic Games in 1948. Since 1980, Iraq has been in every game despite the Iraq War]]. Iraq has never been at the Winter Olympic Games.\n\nIraq has been represented by the National Olympic Committee of Iraq since 1948.\n\n\n", "id": "303452", "title": "Iraq at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303454", "text": "Japan at the Olympics\n\nJapan at the Olympics is a history which includes 41 games in 22 countries and 3,000+ athletes. Since 1912, athletes of Japan have been part of the \"Olympic Movement\".\n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Japan is JPN.\n\nThe Japanese National Olympic Committee was formed in 1911. It was recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1912. Its first president was Jigoro Kano .\n\nJapan's team first competed at the 1912 Summer Olympics in Stockholm. Japan was not invited to the 1948 Games after World War II; and Japan boycotted of the 1980 Summer Olympics in Moscow.\n\nIn support of the team at the 2012 Summer Olympics, each of the 518 athletes were given hand-carved good luck charm made by schoolchildren from tsunami-hit areas in Tōhoku. These special \"medals\" were made from driftwood. There were messages from the children on the ribbons which were attached.\n\nJapanese tennis players Ichiya Kumagae and Seiichiro Kashio were the first Japanese athletes to win medals in summer sport. They won silver medals in the 1920 Summer Olympics. \n\nThe first Japanese medal in a winter sport was in 1956 when Chiharu Igaya earned a silver medal for Alpine skiing.\n\nDuring the course of 20 summer games, Japanese athletes have won 350+ medals, with the most gold medals won in judo. In the 1928 games in Amsterdam, Japan's first gold medals in summer sports were won by Mikio Oda in the triple jump and by Yoshiyuki Tsuruta in swimming. \n\nJapan has won 37 medals at the winter games. In the 1972 games in Sapporo, Japan's first gold medal in a winter sports was won by Yukio Kasaya in ski jumping.\nJapanese Olympic greats include \n\nThe youngest Japanese competitor was Etsuko Inada (12 years, 4 days) in the 1936 Winter Olympics. The oldest Japanese Olympian is Hiroshi Hoketsu (67 years, 139 days) in the 2008 Summer Games.\n\nThe 1940 Summer Olympics and the 1940 Winter Olympics were planned for Japan, but the organizers withdrew in 1938 because of the Second Sino-Japanese War. These games were later cancelled because of World War II.\n\nJapan was the host country three times, including\n\n\n", "id": "303454", "title": "Japan at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303460", "text": "Hayward, California\n\nHayward is a city in the East Bay area of Alameda County, California. It has a population of 144,186. Hayward is the sixth largest city in the San Francisco Bay Area and the third largest in Alameda County, It is on the Bay's eastern shore, next to Union City. The San Mateo-Hayward Bridge starts there. Hayward is the 37th biggest city in California by how many people live there. The city was named after William Dutton Hayward, who opened a hotel in the area in 1852.\n\nPeople first lived in the area as long ago as 4000 B.C.E.. These people were the Native American Ohlone people.\n\nIn the 19th century, this area became part of Rancho San Lorenzo, a Spanish land grant to Guillermo Castro in 1740.\n\nHayward was the home to a big tomato canning company, the Hunt Brothers Cannery. The cannery was opened in Hayward in 1895 by brothers William and Joseph Hunt. The whole city smelled like tomatoes for three months of each year, when the tomatoes were ripe for picking, and they were being cooked for canning. It closed in 1981.\n\nHayward has many business which make things, and many large companies have their offices there. PepsiCo has a bottling factory there. The Shasta soft drink company is in Hayward. The Role-playing game publisher Chaosium is based there.The High-tech company Dust Networks is in Hayward. The Mervyns department store chain was based in Hayward. It went out of business in 2008. The All Pro Wrestling school puts on shows in Hayward.\n\nThe top businesses in the city, which hire 7% of the people in the city, are:\n\n† these are businesses whose main office is based in Hayward\n\nTwo businesses which had a lot of people working for them in the years 2000-2001 were Mervyns, with 2,000, and Pacific Bell, with 940.\n\nThe United States Census Bureau says that the city has a total area of 63.7 square miles (165.1 km²). 45.3 square miles (117.4 km²) of it is land and 18.4 square miles (47.7 km²) of it (28.90%) is water. The Hayward Fault Zone runs through Hayward. The United States Geologic Survey has said there will probably be a big earthquake on this fault zone. This earthquake will probably cause a lot of damage. Other cities next to Hayward are Union City, Fremont and Pleasanton.\n\nThe 2010 United States Census said that 144,186 people, 45,365 households, and 32,559 families resided in the city. There were 3,181.3 people per square mile (1,228.3/km²). The people in the city were 34.2% White (18.8% not Hispanic), 11.9% African American (11.3% not Hispanic), 1.0% Native American, 22.0% Asian, 3.1% people from islands in the Pacific Ocean, 20.8% from other races, and 7.1% from two or more races. 40.7% of the population was Hispanic or Latino of any race. \n\nThere were 48,296 houses. 52.8% were lived in by their owner. 47.2% were lived in by people renting the houses.\n\nThe mayor of Hayward is Michael Sweeney. He was elected for the second time in 2010.\n\nInterstate 880 and Interstate 238 go through Hayward. BART has two stations in Hayward. Amtrak, the US passenger train, has a stop in Hayward. Hayward has a small airport, the Hayward Executive Airport.\n\nThe Hayward Hall of Justice is a branch of the California Superior Court. It is the largest courthouse in Alameda County.\n\nCalifornia State University, East Bay, once known as California State University, Hayward, is mostly located there. It is part of California State University. Hayward also has Chabot College, a community college where Tom Hanks went to school.\n\nHayward has four parks in the East Bay Regional Park District: the Don Castro Regional Recreation Area, Dry Creek Pioneer Regional Park, the Hayward Regional Shoreline, and Garin Regional Park. Hayward has a lot of parks. The Hayward Area Recreation and Park District is the biggest in California.\n\nHayward has two buildings in the National Register of Historic Places: the Green Shutter Hotel and Eden Congregational Church. A third Historic Place, Meek Mansion, is close to the city. The three buildings are also California Historical Landmarks. Ukraina Honcharenko is another Historical Landmark in the city.\n\nSome of the people from Hayward are: the Ukrainian patriot and Greek Orthodox priest Agapius Honcharenko; football coach Bill Walsh; figure skater Kristi Yamaguchi; Treasurer of the United States Rosa Gumataotao Rios; Dwayne Johnson, also known as \"The Rock\", professional wrestler and actor; and Bill Lockyer, California politician, former Attorney General and State Senator, now the State Treasurer.\n\nHayward is the sister city of:\n\n", "id": "303460", "title": "Hayward, California"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303462", "text": "Dioscoreales\n\nDioscoreales is a botanical name for an order of flowering plants. Of necessity it contains the family Dioscoreaceae.\n", "id": "303462", "title": "Dioscoreales"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303475", "text": "Egon Bondy's Happy Hearts Club Banned\n\nEgon Bondy's Happy Hearts Club Banned is a \"studio\" album by the czechoslovakia underground band The Plastic People of the Universe. It was recorded in 1974-1975 in Houska Castle and in atelier in Prague. It was released in 1978 (France) and in Czech Republic in 2001. The album title is a parody on the name of The Beatles album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\".\n\n\n", "id": "303475", "title": "Egon Bondy's Happy Hearts Club Banned"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303480", "text": "Milan Hlavsa\n\nMilan \"Mejla\" Hlavsa (March 6, 1951, Prague, Czechoslovakia - January 5, 2001, Prague, Czech Republic) was a Czech musician and singer. He was founder bassist for the Czechoslovakia underground band The Plastic People of the Universe. In 1999, played in the White House along with Lou Reed.\n", "id": "303480", "title": "Milan Hlavsa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303486", "text": "Olympic (band)\n\nOlympic is a rock band from Prague, Czechoslovakia (today Czech Republic). The band's frontman is Petr Janda. Founding members were Petr Janda (solo guitar, vocals), Pete Kaplan (rhythm guitar), František Ringo Čech (drums) and Miroslav Berka (keyboards).\n\n", "id": "303486", "title": "Olympic (band)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303489", "text": "Red admiral\n\nThe red admiral (\"Vanessa atalanta\") is a well-known colourful butterfly, found in temperate Europe, Asia and North America. It has a wing span. The species is resident only in warmer areas, but migrates north in spring, and sometimes again in autumn.\n\nIn northern Europe, it is one of the last butterflies to be seen before winter sets in, often feeding on the flowers of ivy on sunny days. The red admiral is also known to hibernate, re-emerging individuals showing prominently darker colourings than first brood subjects. The butterfly also flies on sunny winter days, especially in southern Europe.\n\nIn North America, the red admiral generally has two broods from March through October. Most of North America must be recolonized each spring by southern migrants, but this species over-winters in south Texas.\n\nOther red admiral species are:\n\nThe painted ladies are a subgenus \"Cynthis\" of the red admirals. The topside of their wings is mostly orange in colour.\n\nThe group includes:\n\nThe painted lady in the UK migrates south in the winter. This has been proved by tracking them on radar. They fly at high altitude on a 9,000-mile migration. It could take up to six successive generations for the species to complete a 9000 mile (14,400 km) round trip from tropical Africa to Europe.\n\nHuge numbers migrate. The radar showed that 11 million painted ladies entered the UK at high altitude in spring 2009. Twenty six million were counted departing in the autumn.\n\n \n", "id": "303489", "title": "Red admiral"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303490", "text": "Sami Lepistö\n\nSami Lepistö (born October 17, 1984 in Espoo, Finland) is a professional ice hockey defenceman that currently plays for Avtomobilist Yekaterinburg of the KHL. He was drafted with the 66th overall pick by the Washington Capitals in the 2004 NHL Entry Draft. He first played hockey in the SM-liiga with Jokerit. He played with Jokerit with 4 seasons before being signed by the Washington Capitals on May 31, 2007. He was assigned to the Capitals AHL farm team, the Hershey Bears. He was traded to the Phoenix Coyotes on June 27, 2009. He was sent to the Columbus Blue Jackets for Rostislav Klesla and Dane Byers. On July 15, 2011, He signed a one year deal with the Chicago Blackhawks. He played one season with the Blackhawks before signing a one year contract with the rebuilding Lokomotiv Yaroslavl of the KHL. He played 26 games with them and then signed a contract with Lev Prague. He played 11 games with them and currently plays for Avtomobilist Yekaterinburg.\n", "id": "303490", "title": "Sami Lepistö"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303498", "text": "Brian Connelly\n\nBrian Connelly (born June 10, 1986 in Bloomington, Minnesota) is a professional ice hockey defenceman. He currently plays for the Rockford IceHogs which are the AHL farm team of the Chicago Blackhawks of the NHL. \n\nHe played hockey collegically for the Colorado College Tigers for 3 seasons. Connelly also played 3 seasons with the Rockford IceHogs before he was traded to the Calgary Flames by the Blackhawks in exchange for Brendan Morrison on January 27, 2012.\n\nOn July 6, 2012, he signed as a two-year, two-way contract with the Minnesota Wild. On February 26, 2014, Connelly was traded to the Chicago Blackhawks in exchange for Brad Winchester.\n", "id": "303498", "title": "Brian Connelly"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303500", "text": "Nick Leddy\n\nNick Leddy (born March 20, 1991 in Eden Prairie, Minnesota) is a professional ice hockey defenceman that currently plays for the New York Islanders of the NHL. \n\nHe was drafted with the 16th overall pick by the Minnesota Wild in the 2009 NHL Entry Draft. He began his hockey career when he played at the University of Minnesota with the Golden Gophers. He was drafted by the Wild and was traded to the Chicago Blackhawks along with Kim Johnsson for Cam Barker on February 12, 2010. \n\nHe played his first NHL game on October 8, 2010 against the Colorado Avalanche and scored his first NHL goal on October 11, 2010 against Ryan Miller of the Buffalo Sabres. On June 24, 2013, He won the Stanley Cup with the Blackhawks after they defeated the Boston Bruins 4 games to 2 in the 2013 Stanley Cup Finals.\n", "id": "303500", "title": "Nick Leddy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303505", "text": "Meadow brown\n\nThe meadow brown, Maniola jurtina, is a butterfly found in European meadows, where its larvae feed on grasses.\n\nThere is some sexual dimorphism in this species. Males are less colourful, with smaller eyespots and much reduced orange areas on the upper forewings. They are also much more active and range far about, while females fly less and often may not away from the area where they grew up.\n\nThe evolutionary significance of the upperwing eyespots is probably attack \"deflection\". Small, peripherally located eyespots act as attractors to deflect the attacks of predators to non-vital parts of the body.\n", "id": "303505", "title": "Meadow brown"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303507", "text": "Musk ox\n\nThe musk ox (\"Ovibos moschatus\", muskox) is a large Arctic mammal of the Bovidae family.\n\nIt has a thick coat, and was common in the northern hemisphere during the Pleistocene ice age. The males give off a strong odour, hence its name. This musky odour is used to attract females during mating season. Muskoxen travel in herds of females and their young led by one or two strong males. Male oxen fight over who will be leader by butting their thick heads and horns against each other. The musk oxen's long, curved horns keep away predators. When a herd smells nearby wolves, all the musk oxen form a circle and face out. They lower their heads to show off their horns.\n\nMuskoxen live in Arctic North America and Greenland, with small introduced populations in Sweden, Siberia and Norway.\n\nMuskoxen are herbivores which graze on grasses, leaves, and some Arctic flowers. They are ruminants; they swallow their food without chewing it. Later, they regurgitate the food (called a cud) and chew it. Muskoxen, like other ruminants, have a stomach with four sections.\n\nFossil DNA evidence suggests muskoxen were not only more geographically widespread during the Pleistocene, but also more genetically diverse. During that time, other populations of muskoxen lived across the Arctic, from the Ural Mountains to Greenland. Together with the bison and the pronghorn, the muskox was one of a few species of Pleistocene megafauna in North America to survive the Pleistocene/Holocene extinction event and live to the present day.\n", "id": "303507", "title": "Musk ox"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303509", "text": "The Primitives Group\n\nThe Primitives Group was a Czech psychedelic rock group, founded in 1967, broke up two years later, in 1969. Primitives Group played songs, among others, by The Doors, The Fugs, Pretty Things and The Velvet Underground. Guitarist Josef Janíček currently playing with The Plastic People of the Universe.\n", "id": "303509", "title": "The Primitives Group"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303524", "text": "Milan Smrčka\n\nMilan Smrčka; best known as Záviš (September 27, 1956 in Citonice, Czechoslovakia) is a Czech musician, guitarist, vocalist, songwriter and poet.\n\n", "id": "303524", "title": "Milan Smrčka"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303533", "text": "52\n\n52 is a year in the 1st century. Year 52 (LII) was a leap year starting on Saturday of the Julian calendar.\n\n\n", "id": "303533", "title": "52"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303536", "text": "56\n\n56 is a year in the 1st century.\n\n\n", "id": "303536", "title": "56"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303541", "text": "60\n\n60 is a year in the 1st century.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "303541", "title": "60"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303542", "text": "62\n\n62 is a year in the 1st century.\n", "id": "303542", "title": "62"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303543", "text": "63\n\n63 is a year in the 1st century. It was a common year that started on a Saturday.\n\n\n", "id": "303543", "title": "63"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303545", "text": "65\n\nYear 65 (LXV) was a common year starting on Tuesday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar in the 1st century.\n\n\n\n", "id": "303545", "title": "65"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303564", "text": "89\n\nYear 89 (LXXXIX) was a common year starting on Thursday (link will display the full calendar) of the Julian calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Fulvus and Atratinus (or, less frequently, year 842 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 89 for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n", "id": "303564", "title": "89"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303572", "text": "Netsplit\n\nIn computer networking, mainly Internet Relay Chat (IRC), netsplit is the event when two servers disconnect. Because how IRC networks are built, a disconnection between two servers splits the entire network into two parts. This makes it look like people on the other half of the network have quit from IRC.\n\nBelow is an example of typical netsplit. When two servers split, a user sees this as large number of users quitting. After the servers are reconnected, a user sees the other users rejoining.\n\n\n", "id": "303572", "title": "Netsplit"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303573", "text": "Annie Oakley\n\nAnnie Oakley (August 13, 1860 – November 3, 1926), born Phoebe Ann Mosey, was an American sharpshooter (skilled with guns). She was a star in \"Buffalo Bill's Wild West\" show. Oakley was born in Ohio to Jacob and Susan Mosey. On June 20, 1882 she married Frank E. Butler, another skilled shooter. The couple joined Buffalo Bill's show in 1885. Oakley performed before several European heads of state, including Queen Victoria and Kaiser Wilhelm II. She left the show in 1902 and began acting. Oakley died in 1926 of pernicious anemia (a type of blood disorder). She was buried in Greenville, Ohio. Frank Butler died 18 days later.\n", "id": "303573", "title": "Annie Oakley"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303576", "text": "Women's Professional Billiard Association\n\nThe Women's Professional Billiard Association (WPBA) is a professional sports group. It organizes women's billiards in the United States. Pool players Madelyn Whitlow and Palmer Byrd started the group in 1976 as the Women's Professional Billiard Alliance with Larry Miller. Miller was the editor of the \"National Billiard News\".\n\n", "id": "303576", "title": "Women's Professional Billiard Association"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303586", "text": "Audi Cup 2009\n\nThe Audi Cup 2009 (the first edition of the Audi Cup) was a two-day tournament that took place in Germany. The tournament featured four teams, AC Milan, Boca Juniors, Bayern Munich and Manchester United. The winners of the tournament were Bayern Munich, defeating Manchester United 0(7) - 0(6). Boca Juniors took third place, defeating AC Milan 1(4) - 1(3).\n", "id": "303586", "title": "Audi Cup 2009"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303587", "text": "Audi Cup\n\nThe Audi Cup is a two-day football tournament. It happens at the Allianz Arena in Munich, Germany. The first edition of the Audi Cup was won by Bayern Munich. The 2013 champions were Bayern Munich. Bayern Munich has won the tournament the most times.\n\nThe Audi Cup was created in 2009 to remember Audi's 100th year of trading and the hosts, Bayern Munich, won the tournament. It replaced the Franz Beckenbauer Cup for the year.\n\n\n", "id": "303587", "title": "Audi Cup"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303588", "text": "Audi Cup 2013\n\nThe Audi Cup 2013 (the third edition of the Audi Cup) was a two-day tournament that took place in Munich, Germany. The participating teams were Bayern Munich, Manchester City, Milan and São Paulo.\n\n\n", "id": "303588", "title": "Audi Cup 2013"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303593", "text": "2011 FIFA Women's World Cup\n\nThe 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup was the sixth FIFA Women's World Cup tournament. The tournament was on June 26 to July 17. The champions were Japan, beating United States 2(3)-2(1) with penalty shots. Because of Japan's victory, Japan became the first Asian team to win any FIFA World Cup!\n\nThe final was played in the Commerzbank Arena in Frankfurt, Germany. The defending champions, Germany, lost to Japan during the quarter-finals.\n\nAFC (3):\n\nCAF (2):\n\nCONCACAF (3):\n\n\nOFC (1):\n\nUEFA (5):\n", "id": "303593", "title": "2011 FIFA Women's World Cup"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303602", "text": "Hope Solo\n\nHope Amelia Solo (born July 30, 1981, in Richland, Washington) is an American soccer goalkeeper. She plays for the United States women's national soccer team, and for the Seattle Reign FC of the National Women's Soccer League (NWSL), the top division of women's soccer in the United States\n\nDuring the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup, she got 2 official awards. The Bronze Ball and the Best Goalkeeper award. Her father Jeffrey, died on June 15, 2007, because of heart failure. She was part of the USA women's soccer team that won gold at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London.\n\n", "id": "303602", "title": "Hope Solo"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303607", "text": "Melissa McCarthy\n\nMelissa McCarthy (born August 26, 1970) is an American movie and television actress and comedienne. She is well known for her role as Sookie St. James on The WB television show \"Gilmore Girls\" and \"Dena\" on \"Samantha Who?\". She currently stars in the CBS sitcom \"Mike & Molly\".\n\nShe also starred in the movies Bridesmaids and Identity Thief.\n", "id": "303607", "title": "Melissa McCarthy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303608", "text": "MLS Cup\n\nThe Major League Soccer Cup (usually called the MLS Cup) is a tournament that determines the MLS Champion. The tournament is also the highest a team can get in American soccer. The current champions are Sporting Kansas City. The most successful clubs have been D.C. United and the Los Angeles Galaxy, each with four titles.\n\nThe MLS Cup was founded in 1994, and the cup is every year. The first champions ever were D.C. United.\n", "id": "303608", "title": "MLS Cup"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303610", "text": "FieldTurf\n\nFieldTurf is a type of \"fake\" grass used in stadiums. It was created by FieldTurf Tarkett division of Tarkett Inc., a company from Calhoun, Georgia, USA. In the 1990's, the design was to replicate real grass. Eventually, the FieldTurf became the best in the industry.\n\nFieldTurf is made by many fibers, and the bottom is made of silica sand, which is a mixture of sand and ruber.\n\nThe first major use was for American football at the University of Nebraska's Memorial Stadium in 1999. After that, other famous stadiums began using it. Association football's first use of FieldTurf was in January 1997 when the English club of Middlesbrough used for it for their training ground. \"Fake\" grass such as FieldTurf is not liked by major association football companies. No Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA) World Cup match has been played on FieldTurf. Saprissa Stadium in Costa Rica used FieldTurf for a FIFA World Cup qualifying round. 50% of the 2007 FIFA U-20 World Cup stadiums had FieldTurf. Many players do not like playing on FieldTurf, but FIFA has said that FieldTurf will be widely used one day.\n", "id": "303610", "title": "FieldTurf"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303614", "text": "Elf Aquitaine\n\nElf Aquitaine was a French oil company. They merged with TotalFina to form TotalFinaElf. The new company changed its name to Total in 2003. The name Elf has been kept as a brand of Total.\n\nElf Aquitaine's came from three French oil companies: Régie Autonome des Pétroles (RAP), Société Nationale des Pétroles d'Aquitaine (SNPA), and Bureau de Recherches de Pétroles (BRP). The three companies were formed after the discovery of a gas field in Saint-Marcet in the Aquitaine region of south-western France. In December 1965 RAP and BRP merged to form Entreprise de Recherches et d'Activités Pétrolières (ERAP).\n\nOn April 28, 1967 the company's different brand names and products were combined under the Elf brand. Elf stood for Essence Lubricants France. In 1976 Elf-ERAP merged with Antar Pétroles de l'Atlantique and became Société Nationale Elf Aquitaine (SNEA). Later it became known as Elf Aquitaine. Elf Aquitaine was listed on the NYSE in 1991. In 2000 Elf Aquitaine merged with Total Fina to form TotalFinaElf. In 2003, the name was changed to Total.\n\nThe Elf scandal came to light in 1994 in France. According to \"The Guardian\", it was 'the biggest fraud inquiry in Europe since the Second World War... Elf became a private bank for executives who spent £200 million on political favors, mistresses, jewellery, fine art, villas and apartments'. Iraqi-born Nadhmi Auchi, received a 15-month suspended sentence and a £1.5m fine for his involvement taking illegal commissions.\n\nFrom its beginnings, Elf used motor racing as a means of promotion. It had four-year deal with Matra starting in the French Formula 3 series. In 1969 the combination won the Formula One World Championship with Tyrrell and Jackie Stewart. By this time, Elf was owned by the French government. They began a new long-term relationship with Renault, which was also owned by the French government at the time. The Renault F1 racing cars carried Elf sponsorship until 2009. The Elf logos were replaced with Total logos.\n", "id": "303614", "title": "Elf Aquitaine"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303618", "text": "United States women's national soccer team\n\nThe United States women's national soccer team is the United States women's team that is controlled by the United States Soccer Federation. The United States team has for a long time been a great team, and is currently ranked the second best team, by FIFA. The team has won three Women's World Cup titles (1991, 1999, 2015); four Olympic Women's Gold Medals (1996, 2004, 2008 and 2012) and eight Algarve Cups (2000, 2003, 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008, 2010 and 2011).\n\nThe team was also selected as the U.S. Olympic Committee's Team of the Year (1997 and 1999). Sports Illustrated chose the team as the Sportspeople of the Year (1999).\n\nThe United States lost to Japan in the finals, so United States finishes as runner-up (for the first time). They also beat Brazil, which had beaten them in the semifinals of the 2007 FIFA Women's World Cup.\n\nThe United States won their second title on this year. After they defeated China 5-4 in the penalty kicks, a lot more people began to watch Women's football. Also, after Brandi Chastain made the last penalty, she randomly slid on the grass and ripped of her shirt. This brought a lot of attention, but Brandi Chastain said \"Momentary insanity, nothing more, nothing less. I wasn’t thinking about anything. I thought, ‘This is the greatest moment of my life on the soccer field.\"\n\nThe United States won their first title on this year. They defeated Norway 2-1.\n\nThe U.S. women's team boasts the first six players in the history of the sport to have appeared 200 times for their national team. One of them, Kristine Lilly, is the only player of either sex with 300 or more appearances.\n", "id": "303618", "title": "United States women's national soccer team"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303619", "text": "Pavel Sedláček\n\nPavel Sedláček (born July 4, 1941 in Prague, Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia, today Czech Republic) is a Czech rock and roll singer, songwriter and guitarist.\n\n", "id": "303619", "title": "Pavel Sedláček"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303624", "text": "Aleš Brichta\n\nAleš Brichta (born August 9, 1959 in Prague, Czechoslovakia) is a Czech heavy metal singer. He is a founding member of Arakain, from which he left and now plays with \"Aleš Brichta Band\". In 2008 he was inducted to Beatová síň slávy (Beat Hall of Fame).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "303624", "title": "Aleš Brichta"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303625", "text": "Plover\n\nPlovers are water birds birds belonging to the subfamily Charadriinae. There are about 40 species, most of them called 'plover' or 'dotterel'. The closely related lapwing subfamily, Vanellinae, has another 20-odd species.\n\nPlovers are found throughout the world, and have short bills. They wade in the water, and hunt by sight, rather than by feel as longer-billed waders like snipe do. \n\nThey feed mainly on insects, worms or other invertebrates. They use a run-and-pause technique, rather than the steady probing of some other waders.\n\nThe plover group of birds has a defence against predators called \"false brooding\". They sit on an imaginary nest site, changing position sometimes as if real eggs were under them.\n\nThe plover has been known to attack when the young are threatened. The birds secrete an acidic compound from a gland located in their mouth. On contact with skin causes a burning sensation. \n", "id": "303625", "title": "Plover"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303646", "text": "Gay Nigger Association of America\n\nThe Gay Nigger Association of America (often referred to as the GNAA) is an anti-blogging and Internet trolling group (a group that likes causing trouble on the Internet). The group takes their name from the 1992 Danish movie \"Gayniggers from Outer Space\". They have trolled (made trouble for) many popular websites and Internet people. They have trolled many bloggers, and sites including Slashdot, Wikipedia, and CNN. They have also released software and made available secret information about operating systems. In addition, they maintain a wiki-based site that makes fun of Slashdot posts and have a software archive that has many GNAA coding projects.\n\nMembers of the GNAA also started Goatse Security, a grey hat computer safety group. Members of Goatse Security told media groups in June 2010 about a problem located on AT&T's website that made the privacy of people who pre-ordered the iPad public. After the mistake in the website was talked about, the then-president of the GNAA, \"weev\", and GNAA member \"JacksonBrown\" were arrested by the police.\n\nThe group says that it was started in 2002. There is not much information about the group's structure. Researcher Andrew Lih has said that it is not clear if there was a actual group of GNAA members at the start. Also not known is if the first members of the GNAA were online pranksters who used the name in order to disturb or disrupt websites.\n\nThe group's name has been causing trouble (known as trolling) on the Internet, having been described as causing \"alarm in anyone with [even a little bit] of good taste\", and as being \"[amazingly] offensive.\" However, the group claims that it is neither racist nor homophobic (fear of or hatred of gay people). GNAA members deny it when people say that they are racist. They say that these words are said only to get people to make angry responses and to undermine or challenge long-standing social norms, and say that the name of the group came from the 1992 Danish satirical blaxploitation movie (an exploitation movie made specifically for an urban, black people audience) \"Gayniggers from Outer Space\".\n\nThe GNAA uses more than one way of disrupting the Internet. One way is flooding (making many requests at once) weblogs with a very big amount of words and sentences, called \"crapflooding\". They have also made shocking websites that have malware that infects people who visit the sites. One website, \"Last Measure\", had malware that opened up pop-up windows that had shocking pictures. On Wikipedia, the group made a page about itself, while following every rule of Wikipedia in order to use the rules against themselves.\n\nThey have also attacked many Internet Relay Chat channels using IRC flooding. GNAA used an old but little known way to force users of the Freenode IRC network to flood IRC channels after going to websites that have malware. They also have used bugs in Firefox to crapflood IRC channels. They have also shown people new bugs and problems. These actions have sometimes stopped the day-to-day working of big websites such as Slashdot, even making some websites (like 4chan) to shut down for a little bit of time.\n\nIn July 2004, two GNAA members sent secret pictures of the future operating system Mac OS X v10.4 to the popular Apple Macintosh news website MacRumors, which read \"With WWDC just days away, the first Tiger information and [pictures] appears to have been leaked. [Sources say] Apple [might give our coders] ... a Mac OS X 10.4 preview copy at WWDC on Monday. The [pictures] were [said to have] come from this [future coder sneak-peek].\" Later, when people said that the images were fake, the GNAA made a press release which said that the screenshots were real and said that they had \"trolled\" the Apple websites.\n\nIn June 2005, the GNAA said that they had made a Mac OS X Tiger release for Intel x86 processors which made media stories from many sources. The next day, the suspicious leak and was talked about on the G4 show \"Attack of the Show\". The DVD put on BitTorrent just showed an image of Goatse when you started your computer and not the OS X Tiger as many people were led to believe.\n\nOn February 3, 2007, the GNAA tricked CNN reporter Paula Zahn into thinking that \"one in three Americans\" think that the September 11, 2001 terror attacks were done by Israeli agents. CNN then decided to publish a story, not truthfully reporting this, adding pictures of the GNAA-owned website jewsdidwtc.com The story had a round-table talk about people who hate Jews and a talk with the father of a Jewish 9/11 victim. The GNAA-owned website had claims that \"over 4,000\" Jews were not at work at the World Trade Center on 9/11.\n\nMany members of the GNAA with experience in grey hat computer safety research began giving out details about security problems under the name \"Goatse Security.\" Goatse Security takes its name from a shock site called goatse. They chose a new name to publish their work under because they were afraid that their work would not get talked about if given out by the \"Gay Nigger Association of America.\"\n\nIn June 2010, Goatse Security got much attention from the media for their finding of 114,000 email addresses owned by people who pre-ordered Apple's 3G iPad. The data was retrieved from AT&T's own servers. The FBI soon investigated the event. This search for the truth led to the arrest of then-GNAA President, Andrew 'weev' Auernheimer, on drug charges that happened because of an FBI search of his house, and were not having anything to do with his hacking.\n\n", "id": "303646", "title": "Gay Nigger Association of America"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303647", "text": "Pickett's Charge\n\nPickett's Charge was an infantry attack ordered by Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee against Maj. Gen. George G. Meade's Union positions. The attack took place on Cemetery Ridge on July 3, 1863. It was part of the last day of the Battle of Gettysburg during the American Civil War. Lt. Gen. James Longstreet (who was in charge of attack) believed that it would fail. The farthest point reached by the attack has been called the high-water mark of the Confederacy.\n\nThe charge is named after Maj. Gen. George Pickett. Pickett was one of three Confederate generals who led the attack under Longstreet.\n\nLee hoped to attack the Union center on the third day of the Battle of Gettysburg. Confederate attacks on both Union sides had failed the day and night before. On the night of July 2, General Meade said at a council of war that he thought Lee would try an attack on his lines in the center the next day.\n\nA large attack by artillery took place before the infantry charge. The Confederates hoped the artillery attack would make the Union weaker. It did not work too well. About 12,500 men in nine infantry brigades marched over open fields for three-quarters of a mile under heavy Union artillery and rifle fire. Some Confederates were able to get past the low stone wall that many of the Union defenders hid behind. However, they could not hold this area. The Union pushed the Confederates back. Over 50% of the Confederate soldiers on the charge suffered casualties. This defeat ended the three-day battle and Lee's campaign into Pennsylvania. Years later, when asked why his charge at Gettysburg failed, General Pickett said: \"I've always thought the Yankees had something to do with it.\"\n\n\n\n", "id": "303647", "title": "Pickett's Charge"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303649", "text": "The Drug in Me Is You\n\nThe Drug in Me Is You is the first album of the post-hardcore band Falling in Reverse. It was released on July 26, 2011. The album was produced for Michael Baskette, recorder in Orlando, Florida, by Epitaph Records.\n\nThe song \"Raised by Wolves\" was released in May 28, and officially released June 7. The music video from \"The Drug in Me Is You\" was released June 28.\n\nThe album sold 20.000 copies in the first week.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "303649", "title": "The Drug in Me Is You"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303658", "text": "Romance of the Three Kingdoms\n\nRomance of the Three Kingdoms is one of the Four Great Classical Novels of China. It was written by Luo Guanzhong in the 14th century. Nowadays, it is still hugely popular in East Asia.\n", "id": "303658", "title": "Romance of the Three Kingdoms"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303659", "text": "Ragtime\n\nRagtime (or rag-time) is a musical genre which enjoyed its peak popularity between 1897 and 1918.\n\nIts main characteristic trait is its syncopated, or 'ragged', rhythm. It began as dance music in the red-light districts of American cities such as St. Louis and New Orleans years before being published as popular sheet music for piano.\n\nRagtime was a modification of the march made popular by John Philip Sousa, with additional polyrhythms typical of African music. The ragtime composer Scott Joplin became famous through the publication in 1899 of the \"Maple Leaf Rag\" and a string of ragtime hits that followed. For at least 12 years after its publication, the \"Maple Leaf Rag\" heavily influenced subsequent ragtime composers with its melody lines, harmonic progressions or metric patterns.\n\nRagtime fell out of favor as jazz claimed the public's imagination after 1917, but there have been numerous revivals since. First, in the early 1940s many jazz bands began to include ragtime in their repertoire and put out ragtime recordings on 78 rpm records. A more significant revival occurred in the 1950s as a wider variety of ragtime styles of the past were made available on records, and new rags were composed, published, and recorded.\n\nIn 1971 Joshua Rifkin brought out a compilation of Scott Joplin's work which was nominated for a Grammy Award. In 1973, the motion picture \"The Sting\" brought ragtime to a wide audience with its soundtrack of Joplin tunes. Subsequently, the film's rendering of Joplin's 1902 rag \"The Entertainer\" was a Top 5 hit in 1974.\n\nRagtime (with Joplin's work in the forefront) has been cited as an American equivalent of minuets by Mozart, mazurkas by Chopin, or waltzes by Brahms. Ragtime influenced classical composers including Erik Satie, Claude Debussy and Igor Stravinsky. Ragtime was included in the dance styles of Vernon and Irene Castle, and influenced the English ballroom dances, the foxtrot and the quickstep.\n\n", "id": "303659", "title": "Ragtime"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303666", "text": "Army of the Potomac\n\nThe Army of the Potomac was the main Union Army in the Eastern Theater of the American Civil War From 1861 to 1865. The army was also known as Mr. Lincoln's Army due to the close involvement by President Abraham Lincoln. It had two missions. The first was to protect Washington, D.C.. The second mission was to defeat the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia. The generals who led the Army of the Potomac remain some of the most controversial military leaders in history. Under Irvin McDowell, George McClellan, Joseph Hooker and George G. Meade, the army had more defeats than victories.\n\nThe Army of the Potomac had its beginnings when President Lincoln called for 75,000 militia from Northern states. This was just a day after the garrison at Fort Sumter surrendered to Confederate forces. These units were to serve for 90 days and each state governor was given a quota. At the time 90 days was the maximum time militia units could serve under the Militia Act of 1795. In 1861, the regular U.S. Army only had 16,367 officers and men. They were organized into 197 companies, 179 of which were scattered in frontier duty in the west. East of the Mississippi River the remaining 18 companies were all artillery. In total there were only six generals including the General-in-Chief, Winfield Scott.\n\nThere was an urgency to gathering an army together as quickly as possible. Washington was being threatened by the presence of 20,000 Confederate troops camped just 25 miles away near Manassas, Virginia. During the months of April, May and June of 1861, volunteers were everywhere. Almost daily a new group arrived by train. They camped everywhere, even on the White House lawn. On May 24, 1861, Brigadier general Irwin McDowell took command of the new army, called the Army of Northeastern Virginia. With training still incomplete McDowell was ordered to engage the Confederate forces at Manassas. He moved south very slowly which allowed the Confederate commander, P. G. T. Beauregard, enough time to call for reinforcements from his fellow general, Joseph E. Johnston. The engagement that followed was called the First Battle of Bull Run.\n\nAlso called the First Battle of Manassas, fought on July 21, 1861 it was the first large battle of the American Civil War. McDowell started marching part of his army around the left end of the Confederate army attempting a flanking maneuver. The two armies started shooting at each other about 6 a.m. near Matthews Hill. The Confederates did not expect the Union army to attack but they moved brigades to their left flank. The Union army pushed the Confederates back from Matthews Hill about 11 a.m. The Confederates retreated back to another hill called Henry House Hill. On the hill was Thomas J. Jackson's brigade. Another Confederate general was trying to regroup his men. When Jackson rushed forward to fill a gap in the Confederate line the general said, \"Look men, there is Jackson standing like a stone wall!\" After the battle Jackson would be called \"Stonewall Jackson\". All the Union attacks on the Confederate lines failed. In the afternoon the Confederates made an attack of their own. This drove the Union army back towards Washington, D.C. The Confederates were too tired to chase after them.\n\nFour days later, McDowell was replaced by Major general George B. McClellan. A month later the name was changed to the Army of the Potomac. McClellan began training McDowell's raw troops. He organized the army and made sure they were well equipped. For several months, Lincoln urged MaClellan to take the Army of the Potomac and go on the offensive. Finally Lincoln demanded he take action against the Confederate army.\n\nIn March 1862, the Army of the Potomac began its first large-scale offensive in the Eastern Theater of the American Civil War. McClellan landed his army at Fort Monroe. The Army then moved northwest, up the Virginia Peninsula. The Confederate defensive position on the Warwick Line caught McClellan by surprise. McClellan ordered his army to prepare for a siege of Yorktown, Virginia. Before the Union army was ready, the Confederates began a withdrawal toward Richmond. The first heavy fighting of the campaign happened in the Battle of Williamsburg. The Union troops managed some small victories, but the Confederates continued their withdrawal. An amphibious flanking movement cut off the Confederate retreat. In the Battle of Drewry's Bluff, an attempt by the U.S. Navy to reach Richmond by way of the James River failed.\n", "id": "303666", "title": "Army of the Potomac"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303667", "text": "Army of Northern Virginia\n\nThe Army of Northern Virginia was the most successful of any Confederate army during the American Civil War. It was the main Confederate fighting force in the Eastern Theater of the American Civil War. The army often fought against the Union Army of the Potomac. The army was led by several generals during its early history, but was best known for its final leader, General Robert E. Lee, who took over in June of 1862. For that reason it was often called \"Lee's army\".\n\nThe army, when first organized was called the (Confederate) Army of the Potomac. It was formed October 22, 1861. Confederate General P. G. T. Beauregard was first given command of what was called the \"Alexandria Line\" on May 31, 1861. He joined his troops near Manassas, Virginia on June 2. He planned an attack on Washington, D.C. which first required pushing the Union army back behind Bull Run. He called for additional support from Joseph E. Johnston's army in the Shenandoah Valley. On the morning of July 21, 1861, Beauregard planned a surprise attack on the Union forces that failed. He was driven back until the afternoon, when Johnston's troops arrived by train. The Confederates were then able to push the Union forces back and created a victory out of a near-disaster. Both Beauregard and Johnston were full generals. But Johnson took over command of the two armies which were now merged into one. Confederate President Jefferson Davis did not like or agree with Beauregard. There was a series of verbal disputes with Beauregard following Johnston taking command. Possibly as a result, Beauregard was sent west in January 1862 to serve as second in command in the Army of Mississippi.\n\nIn the Battle of Seven Pines, Johnston was wounded. Jefferson Davis appointed Lee to take over command. In June 1862, when Lee took over, the army was a collection of various commands in Virginia and North Carolina. This is also when the army reached its peak strength of 90,000 soldiers. When he replaced Johnston, his orders had the heading \"Department of Northern Virginia,\" and the \"Army of Northern Virginia\". From that time on that was the name it was known by.\n\nLee wanted to inspire his troops telling them \"every man has resolved to maintain the ancient fame of the Army of Northern Virginia and the reputation of its general and to conquer or die in the approaching contest.\" There was no ancient history, it was a newly formed army. But Lee got the idea across. The first first series of battles under Lee, called Seven Days Battles, defined Lee's army. His soldiers were tough, dedicated men willing to inflict and suffer great casualties in order to win battles. Between 1861 and 1865, the Army of Northern Virginia fought in dozens of battles. Some of the better known are the Battle of Antietam, the Battle of Chancellorsville and the Battle of Gettysburg. In the Battle of Fredericksburg his army managed to inflict 12,653 casualties on the Union army while losing only 5,377 men. In December 1861, Lee corrected one of his officers after a fight saying \"you allow these people to get away\". \"Go after them, and damage them all you can!\" In the months following Lee's takeover of the Army of Northern Virginia, as they drove the Union army away from Richmond, Virginia, and out of Virginia, he became a hero to his soldiers and the people of Virginia.\n\nAntietam was the third of four battles in Lee's Maryland Campaign. It fought on September 17, 1862 and was the bloodiest one-day battle of the Civil War. Exact numbers are unknown, but official records show the Army of Northern Virginia suffered 10,320 casualties (killed, wounded or missing). The Union Army of the Potomac suffered 12,400 casualties.\n\nLee's goal was for the Army of Northern Virginia to invade the Northern states of Maryland and Pennsylvania. That way he could threaten the cities of Washington, D.C. and Baltimore. By a series of decisive victories Lee thought that the South could gain recognition from England and France and get them to support the Southern cause. The hope was if Lee's army was victorious, it might cause Abraham Lincoln to sue for peace. During the month of September Lee had moved his army north. They captured the garrison at the Battle of Harpers Ferry. Lee's army was driven back at the Battle of South Mountain and withdrew again after a day of heavy fighting at Antietam. Retreating back into Virginia, Lee managed to reinforce General George B. McClellan's overly-cautious nature with a successful rearguard action at the Battle of Shepherdstown. It stopped the Union Army of the Potomac from chasing the Army of Northern Virginia back into Virginia. From a military standpoint, Antietam was a draw. But it gave Lincoln the opportunity he needed to claim a victory and use it to deliver his Emancipation Proclamation.\n\nAt Chancellorsville, Lee's army defeated the Army of the Potomac once again, this time inflicting 16,800 casualties while losing 13,000 men. The victory at Chancellorsville brought new hope to the South. It reinforced the idea that a single blow to the North could win the war. His soldiers and officers held Lee in the highest regard. They trusted his judgment and believed him to be a military genius. At this same time the Union Army of the Potomac was suffering poor morale under General Joseph Hooker. Time and again the Army of Northern Virginia, which had fewer men and far fewer resources, defeated the larger Army of the Potomac. Lee carefully monitored events in the Northern newspapers for any and all information about his enemy.\n\nGettysburg was Lee's next chance to strike a final blow that would win the war. The battle was fought from From July 1 to July 3, 1863. This time Lee suffered more casualties than he could afford. The standoff that was Gettysburg ended Lee's invasion of the north and nearly destroyed the Army of Northern Virginia. Now the war was turned around for the Union. \n\nThe battle revealed the Army of Northern Virginia had another agenda. As the Confederate army swept northward into Pennsylvania, the soldiers rounded up escaped slaves and free blacks. African-Americans, men, women and children were gathered up and taken with the army as they marched north. When the Army of Northern Virginia retreated, they took the captured black people, estimated to be over a thousand, back to Virginia. There those who had escaped slavery were returned to their slaveowners. Others were sold at auction or imprisoned. Lee may not have ordered the \"slave hunt\". Once in Pennsylvania he told his troops \"no greater disgrace could befall the army,\" or discredit the Confederate cause, \"than the perpetuation of the barbarous outrages upon the unarmed and defenceless [sic] and the wanton destruction of private property that have marked the course of the enemy in our own country.\" This did not stop his officers and men from rounding up blacks. In one case at Mercersburg, Pennsylvania, soldiers threatened to burn \"every house which harbored a fugitive slave\". They gave the people in their homes 20 minutes to give up any black people.\n\nIn mid-May, 1864, rumors were going around that the Army of Northern Virginia was beaten. A Union officer on General George G. Meade's staff corrected the idea. He said \"Lee is a brave and skillful soldier and he will fight while he has a division or a day's rations left.\" Of Lee's soldiers Lyman said \"These rebels are not half-starved and ready to give up—a more sinewy, tawny, formidable-looking set of men could not be\". Lyman knew they were still a deadly fighting force even after three years of hard war against a larger and better equipped army. Not surprisingly, it would take another 11 months of hard fighting before the Army of Northern Virginia finally surrendered at Appomattox.\n\n", "id": "303667", "title": "Army of Northern Virginia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303671", "text": "Stenhousemuir F.C.\n\nStenhousemuir FC is a Scottish football club from Stenhousemuir. The club is a member of the Scottish Football League and currently plays in the Scottish Second Division.\n\nThrough much of its history the team has competed in the lower leagues of Scottish football, spending the 2006–07 season in the Third Division. In 2008–09, despite earning 4th place, the club won the promotion play-offs and returned to the Scottish Second Division.\n\nIn September 2009, Stenhousemuir Football Club, Ltd. was re-registered as a Community Interest Company.\n\nThe club was founded in 1884 following a break away from a local team called \"Heather Rangers\". In 1890, the Warriors moved to Ochilview Park following spells at Tryst Park and Goschen Park. In the early 20th century the club had a brief spell of success, winning the Scottish Qualifying Cup twice in 1901 and 1902. In 1902–03, the club reached the Scottish Cup semi-final, losing 1–4 at home to Rangers. The 1921–22 season saw Stenhousemuir compete for the first time in senior Scottish League Football.\n\nIn 1925–26, Stenhousemuir goalkeeper Joe Shortt was offered a £50 bribe to throw a match against Broxburn, but he rejected the offer and the Warriors won the match 6–2. A bookmaker from Bainsford, a small village on the outskirts of Falkirk, was subsequently jailed for attempted match fixing.\n\nIn 1928, the wooden grandstand at Ochilview Park burnt down in a fire, which lead to a new stand being built in its place, although staircases had to be added later due to planning errors. During the 1936–37 season saw the club record a record victory – a 9–2 win against Dundee United. More than a decade later in 1949–50, a Scottish Cup quarter-final tie against East Fife drew a record crowd of 12,500 – the highest ever at Ochilview Park.. In November 1951, the first floodlit game between two Scottish senior teams occurred at Ochilview Park, between Stenhousemuir and Hibernian.\n\nIn the summer of 1964, Rangers FC revealed a plan to The Scottish Football League to remove the Warriors from the league, along with four other clubs, on the basis that they were poorest-supported clubs over the previous three seasons. Four years later, Stenhousemuir, along with Albion Rovers, Berwick Rangers, Brechin City and Stranraer, with support from a number of clubs, including Celtic F.C., Hamilton Academical F.C. and Airdrieonians F.C., successfully defeated this plan.\n\nIn 1972–73, the Warriors defeated Rangers 2–1 at Ibrox Stadium in the Scottish League Cup. Notably, Rangers were the holders of the UEFA Cup Winners' Cup at the time.\n\nIn 1992–93, the team allowed their rivals Stirling Albion to share their stadium Ochilview Park. In the 1993–94 season, the Warriors moved out of the bottom league for the first time, due to the formation of the Scottish Third Division. The mid-90s was one of the club's most successful periods in its history; in 1994–95 they defeated St. Johnstone 4–0 and Aberdeen 2–0, both higher league opposition, en-route to the Scottish Cup quarter finals. In the 1995–96 season, Stenhousemuir won the Scottish Challenge Cup, defeating Dundee United 5–4 on penalties after a goalless 90 minutes and extra time. In the process, reaching their first national semi-final since 1902.\n\nStenhousemuir was relegated from the Scottish Second Division to the Scottish Third Division for the first time in the history of the club. However, the next season winning promotion back to the Second Division, also a first in its history.\n\nIn 2006–07, the club announced a plan to lay 'fake' grass at Ochilview Park. It became the first in the UK to pass the FIFA 2 Star category accreditation.\n\nStenhousemuir were promoted to the Scottish Second Division after defeating Cowdenbeath 5–4 on penalties after drawing 0–0 on aggregate in the play-off final at the end of the 2008–09 season. The 2010–11 season saw the club narrowly avoid relegation after spending most of the season in the relegation zone. On the final day of the season the club defeated Peterhead 3–0 to move above Alloa Athletic and therefore avoided the relegation play-offs.\n\nFor the 2011/2012 Season, the Home Kit is sponsored by Figure 11 Communications Ltd, the Away Kit is sponsored by Apex Hotels, and the rear of kit sponsor is Wright & MacLennan.\nStenhousemuir Supporters' Club is the official supporters' club of Stenhousemuir FC. It is a democratic organisation based on one vote per person, and its committee is elected every year by the members. It is the largest shareholder in the club with about 11 % of the shares with the aim to increase the shareholding so that no individual(s) can take control of the club away from its supporters.\n\nThe Kriss Akabusi Loyal is a band of traveling supporters. It has a democratically-elected representative on the Stenhousemuir FC Board to relay supporter's ideas and wishes. This person serves two years on the Board before being replaced by another member of the committee.\n\nThe club also has many foreign supporters: the Norwegian Supporters' Club is a small supporters' organisation based in Oslo, Norway). The Supporters Club was founded on New Year's Eve 1992 by Rolf Erik Wulff, Christian Wulff and Kjell Jarslett. In 1996 it was given one share of Stenhousemuir F.C. as a recognition of their support and promotion of the club. As of today, the supporters club and its members owns about 5% of the shares in Stenhousemuir. Also the Stenhousemuir FC Danish Support. The Denmark based supporters club is an unofficial Warriors fan club founded and established in the summer 2000. The fan club has approximately 30 members.\n\nStenhousemuir Supporters Trust also The 'Warriors Supports Trust' is registered with the Financial Services Agency as a not-for-profit Industrial and Provident Society. It was established in 2003. It works with the Board of the football club and the Supporters Club to develop a more successful football club. The annual membership subscription of the Trust is £5 but Trust members can take out either a 'silver' membership of £5 a month, or a 'gold' membership of £10 a month. The cash obtained from membership of the Trust is used to buy shares the football club has for sale, and hence the club benefits financially. Since its inception the Trust has given money to the club and its members have given their time and labour towards several projects. The current Chairman of the Stenousemuir Supporters Trust is Graeme Wallace who is also the stadium announcer at Ochilview\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"As of 20 June 2011\"\n\n", "id": "303671", "title": "Stenhousemuir F.C."}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303675", "text": "Great Attractor\n\nThe Great Attractor (GA) is a gigantic mass in space which pulls our Milky Way galaxy, and many other galaxies towards it. \n\nThe Great Attractor is known by its effect on the movement of galaxies across hundreds of millions of light years (mly). Its mass is equivalent to the mass of tens of thousands of Milky Ways.\n\nAll the galaxies in the GA are redshifted, in accordance with the expansion of the Universe. They are receding relative to us and to each other, but the variations in their redshift show the existence of the Attractor. The variations in their redshifts range from about +700 km/s to -700 km/s, depending on where they are in relation to the Great Attractor.\n\nThe position of the Great Attractor was finally worked out in 1986. It is between 150 and 250 million light years (47–79 million parsecs) away. Objects in that direction lie in the Zone of Avoidance, which is the part of the night sky obscured by the Milky Way galaxy. Because of this, they are difficult to study with visible light. However, X-ray observations have revealed that the region of space is dominated by the Norma Cluster, a massive cluster of galaxies, with large, old galaxies, many of which are colliding with their neighbours, and/or radiating large amounts of radio waves.\n\nIn 2005, astronomers conducted an X-ray survey of part of the sky known as the Clusters in the Zone of Avoidance. The survey confirmed earlier theories that the Milky Way galaxy was in fact being pulled towards a much more massive cluster of galaxies near the Shapley Supercluster, which is beyond the Great Attractor.\n\n", "id": "303675", "title": "Great Attractor"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303684", "text": "Cubs Win Flag\n\nThe Cubs Win Flag is a flag that is flown at Wrigley Field after every Chicago Cubs home win. The flag is called by about a dozen names. These names usually include several of the following words; either Cubs or Chicago Cubs; Win, W, White, White W, or W Win; and flag, banner or banner flag. Other common names for the symbol incwegqCubs Win Banner Flag. It has become an important symbol for fans. Days when the win flag is flown are known as \"White Flag Days\". The tradition of flying a win or loss flag over the stadium began soon after the scoreboard was built in 1937.\n\nThe flag has used two different colors with the letter \"W\" on a solid background. The flag used now is white with a blue \"W.\" There is a flag used for losses with a letter \"L\". This flag is blue with a white \"L\" on it. Additionally, lights are shone on the flags that show if it was a win or loss. A new flag is used for each win. Some stores sell versions of the flag that also have the Cubs logo at the bottom.\n\n", "id": "303684", "title": "Cubs Win Flag"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303685", "text": "Wrigley Field\n\nWrigley Field is a sports stadium, the baseball park where the Chicago Cubs play in Major League Baseball. The ballpark is in Chicago, Illinois. The Cubs have been playing there since 1916.\n\nThe ballpark is on the north side of Chicago. It is on a block bounded by Addison Street, Clark Street, Waveland Avenue, and Sheffield Avenue. It was built in 1914 for the Chicago Whales of the Federal League. The Federal League disbanded after the 1915 season. The Cubs moved from their previous home, West Side Park, to this ballpark in 1916.\n\nThe Chicago Bears of the National Football League played their home games at Wrigley Field from 1921 through 1970. They moved to Soldier Field in 1971.\n\nWrigley Field has also hosted events such as soccer and hockey. It has also been used as a filming location for some Hollywood movies.\n\nThe ballpark has a \"cozy\" feel. Fans often call it \"The Friendly Confines\". That nickname was made famous by former Cubs player Ernie Banks.\n\nThere was also a Wrigley Field (Los Angeles), built by the same people who built Wrigley Field in Chicago.\n\n", "id": "303685", "title": "Wrigley Field"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303686", "text": "Zone of Avoidance\n\nThe Zone of Avoidance (ZOA) is the area of the night sky that is obscured by our own galaxy, the Milky Way.\n\nDust and stars in the plane of the Milky Way (the galactic plane) obstruct our view of about 20% of the sky at visible wavelengths. As a result, optical galaxy catalogues are usually very incomplete close to the galactic plane.\n\nIn more recent years, many projects have attempted to bridge the gap in our knowledge caused by the Zone of Avoidance. However, the effects of the Zone drops at longer wavelengths, such as the infrared, and the Milky Way is effectively transparent at radio wavelengths. Surveys in the infrared have given us a more complete picture of the extragalactic sky. Indeed, two very large nearby galaxies, Maffei 1 and Maffei 2, were discovered in the Zone of Avoidance by Paolo Maffei by their infrared emission in 1968. Even so, about 10% of the sky remains difficult to survey because extragalactic objects (for example, distant galaxies) can be confused with stars in the Milky Way.\n\nProjects to survey the Zone of Avoidance at radio wavelengths have detected many galaxies that could not be detected in the infrared. Examples of galaxies detected from their HI emission include Dwingeloo 1 and Dwingeloo 2.\n\nImportant superclusters of galaxies lying hidden or partly hidden by ZOA are The Great Attractor and the Norma Cluster.\n\n", "id": "303686", "title": "Zone of Avoidance"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303689", "text": "Norma Cluster\n\nThe Norma Cluster (ACO 3627 or Abell 3627) is a rich of galaxies near the center of the Great Attractor. \n\nIt is both nearby and bright; but it is difficult to observe because it is in the Zone of Avoidance. This is a region near the plane of the Milky Way, which obscures our view. The cluster is hidden by interstellar dust at optical wavelengths. Its mass is estimated to be on the order of 10 solar masses.\n\n", "id": "303689", "title": "Norma Cluster"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303691", "text": "Lewis acid\n\nThe concept of Lewis acid and Lewis base is one of acids and bases, which is independent of the idea of protons. Gilbert Newton Lewis developed this idea in the early 20th century. In this concept, a Lewis acid can accept and bind electrons. Lewis acid is a substance that accepts two electrons to form a covalent bond. A Lewis base is a substance that gives two electrons in the bonding. A Lewis acid together with a Lewis base will react to make a compound called a Lewis adduct.\n", "id": "303691", "title": "Lewis acid"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303697", "text": "Shamrock Rovers F.C.\n\nShamrock Rovers Football Club (\"Irish: Cumann Peile Ruagairí na Seamróige\") is a football club from Dublin, Ireland. They play in the Premier Division of the League of Ireland. The club is the most successful in Ireland's football history.\n\nThe club was founded in 1901 and is named after Shamrock Avenue in Dublin, the place where the club was founded. They started playing friendly matches. In 1904/05 they began to play in a league. From 1907 till 1914 they were not allowed to play because they had no home ground. In 1921 they missed the founding of the league of Ireland, but the next season they played in this league and won the title. The next decades the Rovers were very successful. In 1967, they played as Boston Rovers one season in the United Soccer Association in the USA.\n\nIn 1987 Glenmalure Park, the home ground was sold by the club owners as building area. The club started to build a new stadium in Dublins suburb Tallaght but came into financial troubles. The County South Dublin finished the construction in 2009 and so the Rovers have a new homeground. During the troubles the club was also relegated to the first division of the League of Ireland in 2005 but in 2007 they won and were again promoted to the Premier Division.\n\nThrough a 2:1 after extra time against (home 1:1) the Rovers are qualified for the UEFA-Europa League group stage 2011/12. They will play in group A versus Tottenham Hotspur, Rubin Kasan and PAOK Saloniki.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "303697", "title": "Shamrock Rovers F.C."}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303701", "text": "Galactic plane\n\nThe galactic plane is the plane in which most of a disk-shaped galaxy's mass lies. \n\nThe directions perpendicular to the galactic plane point to the galactic poles. In actual use, the terms \"galactic plane\" and \"galactic poles\" usually refer specifically to the plane and poles of the Milky Way, the galaxy where the Earth is.\n\nSome galaxies are irregular and do not have any well-defined disk. Even in the case of a spiral galaxy like the Milky Way, defining the galactic plane is imprecise since the stars are not perfectly in the plane. \n\n", "id": "303701", "title": "Galactic plane"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303705", "text": "CfA2 Great Wall\n\nThe Great Wall is one of the largest known super-structures in the Universe.\n\nIt is a huge group of galaxies about 200 million light-years away. The Great Wall is like a long filament: it is over 500 million light-years long, 300 million light-years wide, but only 15 million light-years thick. It was discovered in 1989 by Margaret Geller and John Huchra from redshift survey data.\n\nWe do not know how much farther the wall extends. Our view is blocked by the galactic plane of the Milky Way. The gas and dust from the Milky Way (known as the Zone of Avoidance) obscures the view of astronomers. This makes it impossible to find out if the wall ends or continues on further. \n\nIn the standard model of the evolution of the universe, such structures as the Great Wall form along and follow web-like strings of dark matter. It is thought that this dark matter dictates the structure of the Universe on the grandest of scales. Dark matter gravitationally attracts baryonic matter, and it is this 'normal' matter that astronomers see forming long, thin walls of super-galactic clusters.\n\n", "id": "303705", "title": "CfA2 Great Wall"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303707", "text": "Local Group\n\nThe Local Group is the group of galaxies that includes our galaxy, the Milky Way. \n\nThe group has more than 50 galaxies (including dwarf galaxies). Its gravitational center is somewhere between the Milky Way and the Andromeda galaxy. The galaxies of the Local Group cover a 10 million light-year diameter and have a binary (dumbbell) shape. The group has a total mass of about (1.29 ± 0.14)M.\nThe group itself is part of the Virgo Supercluster (also called the Local Supercluster).\n\nThe term \"Local Group\" was introduced by Edwin Hubble in 1936. He describes it as \"a typical small group of nebulae which is isolated in the general field\". He listed the galaxies, by decreasing luminosity, as the Andromeda galaxy, the Milky Way, Triangulum galaxy, the Large Magellanic Cloud, the Small Magellanic Cloud and half-a-dozen others. \n\nBy 2003, the number of known Local Group members has increased from his initial twelve to thirty-six, by way of the discovery of almost two dozen low-luminosity galaxies.\n\n", "id": "303707", "title": "Local Group"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303715", "text": "Hydron\n\nIn chemistry a proton is a positively charged hydrogen ion. According to IUPAC, the name hydron should be used for such a particle. In this sense, a \"hydron\" can be a proton in the sense of physics, a \"deuteron\" or a \"triton\". A deuteron is the ion of deuterium, a triton that of tritium. (So chemists use the term \"hydron\" because it covers all three hydrogen ion isotopes.) In 1923, Johannes Nicolaus Brønsted and Thomas Lowry used hydrons to describe acids and bases. They defined acids as proton donors and bases as proton acceptors.\n", "id": "303715", "title": "Hydron"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303719", "text": "Hexactinellid\n\nHexactinellid sponges are sponges with a skeleton made of four- and/or six-pointed silaceous spicules, often referred to as glass sponges. They are usually classified along with other sponges, but some researchers consider them sufficiently distinct to deserve their own phylum, Symplasma.\n", "id": "303719", "title": "Hexactinellid"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303721", "text": "Demosponge\n\nThe Demospongiae are the largest class in the phylum Porifera. Their skeletons are made of spicules consisting of fibers of the protein spongin, the mineral silica, or both. Where spicules of silica are present, they have a different shape from those in the otherwise similar glass sponges.\n", "id": "303721", "title": "Demosponge"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303731", "text": "University Finis Terrae\n\nUniversity Finis Terrae () is a private autonomous university in Santiago de Chile.\n\nIt was founded in 1988. In 1999, this university was subscribed to an agreement of association with the Congregation of the Legionaries of Christ, it means a greater progress in terms of infrastructure, institutional development and extension and the open of new study plans.\n\n\n", "id": "303731", "title": "University Finis Terrae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303733", "text": "Universidad Mayor, Chile\n\nUniversidad Mayor is a private autonomous university in Chile with headquarters in Santiago and a secondary campus in Temuco.\n\nIt was founded in 1988. \n\n\n", "id": "303733", "title": "Universidad Mayor, Chile"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303734", "text": "University of the Pacific\n\nUniversity of the Pacific () is a private autonomous university in Chile. It has three headquarters in Santiago, one in Melipilla, and an office in Concepción.\n\nIt was founded in 1990. \n\n\n", "id": "303734", "title": "University of the Pacific"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303737", "text": "Tentaculata\n\nTentaculata is a class of comb jellies. The common feature of this class is a pair of long, feathery, contractile tentacles, which can be retracted into specialised ciliated sheaths. In some species, the primary tentacles are reduced and they have smaller, secondary tentacles. The tentacles have colloblasts, which are sticky-tipped cells that trap small prey.\n", "id": "303737", "title": "Tentaculata"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303741", "text": "Shōchū\n\nShōchū is a Japanese alcoholic drink. It is usually around 25% alcohol. Shōchū is made often from barley, rice, or sweet potato. It is made many places in Japan, but started in Kyūshū. People drink it mixed with water, over ice, in cocktails, or straight. Shōchū is different from \"nihonshu\", or sake.\n", "id": "303741", "title": "Shōchū"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303743", "text": "Awamori\n\nAwamori is an alcoholic drink from Okinawa, Japan. Awamori is made from rice. It is fermented and distilled. Awamori is similar to shōchū, but very different from \"nihonshu\", or sake. The amount of alcohol in Awamori is usually between 30% and 43% and sometimes up to 60%. After distillation drink is ready for bottling and drinking, but as a rule it is aged in ceramic containers for better taste. Ordinary varieties Awamori aged about 6 months, but are made and much more aged varieties - 20 and 25 years of aging. Small amounts of drinks made with addition of various spices, ginseng, and even canned snake.\n\nPeople in Okinawa enjoy drinking Awamori with friends, families and so on. It is　popular with tourists as a souvenir.\n\nMost of the people in Okinawa drink Awamori with ice and water. Some people drink with it Jasmine tea, which is called Sanpincha in Okinawa. It makes the taste of Awamori better.\n\nAwamori can improve if its maker takes time to let it mature. If it is matured a long time, the taste becomes mellow and its smell becomes sweet.\n\nIn the 19th century, ships from England, France and the United States reached the Ryūkyū Islands, and awamori was served to the crews.\n", "id": "303743", "title": "Awamori"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303746", "text": "Greyson Chance\n\nGreyson Michael Chance (born August 16, 1997) is a musician and a pianist. He became famous for his cover (his version) of the song \"Paparazzi\" by Lady Gaga in a sixth-grade music festival. The cover reached about 700 million views on Youtube in April 2010. He was later discovered by Ellen DeGeneres and was a guest on her show 2 times. His first debut single is \"Waiting Outside the Lines\" which was released on October 2010. His first debut album called \"Hold on 'till the Night\" was later released on August 2, 2011.\n\nChance was born on August 16, 1997 in Wichita Falls, Texas. He currently lives in Edmond, Oklahoma. He is the youngest child of Scott and Lisa Chance. He has a sixteen-year-old sister, Alexa, and a nineteen-year-old brother, Tanner. Both Alexa and Tanner also play music. Chance began playing the piano at the age of 8 and has had three years of piano lessons. He has never had vocal (singing) lessons. when he was at the age of 7 he moved to Jacksonville Florida and had been applied for the elementary school John N.C. Stockton.\n", "id": "303746", "title": "Greyson Chance"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303748", "text": "Eephus pitch\n\nAn Eephus pitch is a kind of pitch in baseball. It is a kind of \"junk pitch\" (trick pitch). An Eephus pitch is very slow and is used to catch the batter off guard. The pitch was invented by Rip Sewell of the Pittsburgh Pirates in the 1940s. The name \"Eephus pitch\" comes from the Hebrew word \"\", which means \"nothing.\" Pirates manager Frankie Frisch claimed that the pitch was named by outfielder Maurice Van Robays. Van Robays explained that \"Eephus ain't nothing, and that's a nothing pitch.\"\n\nThe Eephus pitch is thrown overhand, like other pitches in baseball. It is unusually slow, and has a high arc trajectory (the ball travels along a high curve.) The trajectory (the path the ball travels) looks more like a pitch from slow-pitch softball than baseball. \n\nThe Eephus pitch is unusually slow. It appears to move in slow motion. The ball travels or less. Baseball pitches in Major League Baseball usually travel between . The Eephus pitch is considered a trick pitch because it is so slow.\n\nThe Eephus pitch is sometimes called by other names. These names usually refer to an Eephus pitch thrown by a specific pitcher. Some of the most famous of these names are:\n\nSome other nicknames are bloop curve and gravity curve. It is sometimes also called the Bugs Bunny curve. This name comes from a Bugs Bunny cartoon called \"Baseball Bugs.\" In the cartoon, batters swing three times at a very slow pitch before it reaches home plate.\n", "id": "303748", "title": "Eephus pitch"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303752", "text": "University of Antofagasta\n\nThe University of Antofagasta () is a university in Antofagasta, Chile. It is one of the universities in the north of Chile.\n\nIt was founded in 1981 thanks to the fusion of the TUS of Antofagasta and the Regional Headquarter of the University of Chile, it was the point of start of the actual university.\n\n\n", "id": "303752", "title": "University of Antofagasta"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303759", "text": "Siméon Denis Poisson\n\nSiméon Denis Poisson ( 21 June 1781 in Pithiviers - 25 April 1840 in Sceaux, near Paris) was a French mathematician and physicist. From 1798 he studied mathematics at the École Polytechnique, where he met Pierre-Simon Laplace and Joseph-Louis Lagrange. In 1802 he became professor, in 1806 he took the position Jean Baptiste Joseph Fourier had before him. Napoleon sent Fourier to Grenoble. Poisson was a disciple of Laplace. Poisson worked on the mathematical bases of wave theory, acoustics, elasticity, electricity and heat. He was also interested in the electric properties of solids. In 1812, he published his extension of Laplace's equation, which allowed its use for electric charge at the surface of solids. In the year 1818, he predicted the existence of a phenomenon called the Poisson spot, in the case that light should have the character of a wave. Poisson thought that was not the case and that it had the character of particles. He had long discussions with Augustin-Jean Fresnel, who thought that light was indeed a wave. This discussion only ended when Fresnel could show the existence of the spot Poisson had predicted in an experiment. In 1838, Poisson published his ideas on probability theory, which also included what is now known as Poisson distribution. This distribution was already known to Abraham de Moivre. \n\nThe relation between pressure and volume in the adiabatic process is constant, this is known as \"Poisson's Law\" today. In thermodynamics, the same relation is formulated as a number of equations, which are known as \"Poisson's equations\". Poisson's ratio which gives the amount an object is stretched under load, is also named after him. \n\nHis name is one of 72 honored on the Eiffel tower.\n", "id": "303759", "title": "Siméon Denis Poisson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303760", "text": "Rotavirus\n\nRotavirus is a virus that causes diarrhoea. Most of the time only children who are younger than five years old get the disease. The signs of the disease are severe diarrhoea and vomiting, which start suddenly and last for two or three days. Rotavirus also causes diarrhoea in animals. A vaccine, which prevents children from getting the disease is available in many countries.\n\nLike most viruses, rotaviruses are made from RNA and protein. The RNA carries the genes that are used to make more rotaviruses. They are called rotaviruses because they sometimes look like little wheels and \"rota\" is the latin word for \"wheel\". Rotaviruses get into the body through the mouth and are not present in the air like the viruses that cause colds. The disease is most often spread by dirty hands and things used for cooking, but the viruses can contaminate water. Rotaviruses are very small. They are a lot smaller than bacteria and can only be seen using an electron microscope. \n\nChildren who have not been vaccinated usually get infected more than once. But when children are about five years old they are usually immune and cannot get it any more. This is because their bodies have become resistant to the viruses.\n\nRotaviruses infect the cells that the small intestine is made from. This makes it difficult for the body to digest food. Children usually make a complete recovery from the infection. But it is very important to make sure they drink enough water to replace what they are losing. In many countries the medicine used is called \"oral rehydration solution\". This comes in a small packet that is added to drinking water. It contains salt and sugar, which helps the body take up the water.\n\nRotaviruses were discovered in the 1970s. Since then doctors and scientists have shown that they are a problem to children all over the world. More than 500,000 children die from rotavirus infection each year and almost two million more become severely ill. The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation are helping to pay for rotavirus vaccines in countries that cannot afford to buy them. Between 2006 and 2011 he gave more than 82 million US dollars.\n\n", "id": "303760", "title": "Rotavirus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303764", "text": "Croatian National Resistance\n\nThe Croatian National Resistance () was a terrorist Ustaše emigrant organization. The goal of this organization was to destroy Yugoslavia and to establish an independent Croatia, following the vision of Ustaše leader Ante Pavelić and ideology of Mile Budak. It was founded in 1955 by escaped Ustaše war criminal Vjekoslav Luburić, a chief guard of the Jasenovac concentration camp.\n\nWhile Luburić was the head of this organization, Odpor maintained regular contacts with associations of Nazi war veterans in Germany and Spain. Very close relations were established with fascist Spanish \"Blue Guard\" veterans. Odpor had stated that:\n\n\"[We] regard Yugoslavism and Yugoslavia as the greatest and only evil that has caused the existing calamity [...] We therefore consider every direct or indirect help to Yugoslavia as treason against the Croatian nation [...] Yugoslavia must be destroyed - be it with the help of the Russians or the Americans, of Communists, non-Communists or anti-Communists - with the help of anyone willing the destruction of Yugoslavia: destroyed by the dialectic of the word, or by dynamite - but at all costs destroyed.\"\nOdpor had its Australian branch based in Melbourne. It was linked to the Odpor headquarters in Spain and to other arms of the Ustashe movement around the world. The Australian branch was led by Ustashe Srecko Blaz Rover\n\nOdpor was heavily involved in racketeering, attempted murder, extortion, hijacking, terrorist bombing, and other violent crimes. After Luburić's death, his successors on the organization commanding post, sought out criminal organization ties with La Cosa Nostra, the Provisional Irish Republican Army, and the Croatian Mafia in San Pedro.\n\nOdpor most spectacular action was the 10 September 1976 hijacking of Trans World Airlines flight, en route from New York to Chicago. Odpor's five hijackers diverted the plane to Newfoundland, from there to Iceland, and ultimately to Paris with passengers aboard. The terrorists had planted a bomb in Grand Central Station. After authorities met the terrorists' demands, the bomb location was revealed. The bomb deactivation killed one policeman and another three wounded, when they tried to deactivate it. After terrorists learned that the bomb in New York had exploded and killed a policeman, they surrendered to French police.\n\nThe leaders of the hijackers of TWA Flight 355, Zvonko Bušić and his wife, Julienne Bušić, were both convicted on U.S. federal charges of air piracy and murder in May 1977 and sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nJulienne Bušić was released from prison on lifelong parole in 1989. Zvonko Bušić briefly escaped from prison on 16 March 1987 but was quickly captured two days later. Julienne Bušić was appointed by President Franjo Tudjman to the diplomatic post of adviser to the Croatian ambassador to the United States. This appointment of a convicted terrorist to a diplomatic post within the United States drew protests in December 1994 from the New York Patrolmen’s Benevolent Association as well as from Kathlyn Murray, the widow of the police officer killed by the bomb in Grand Central Station in 1976.\n\nHer husband, Zvonko Bušić, was paroled in July 2008 and expelled from the U.S. to Croatia.\n\nIn 1980es Odpor carried out five bombings in the United States. Bombed were (causing no injuries):\n\nOdpor was banned in Germany for terrorist activities and operated between legitimate emigre functions and a thuggish underworld. Its leaders tried to distance the organization from the acts of the so-called renegade elements that hijacked international flights and served prison sentences for extortion. It embraced a radical nationalist ideology that differed only marginally from Ustaše ideology.\n\nA number of terrorist attacks against Yugoslavia were organized by this Ustaše organization. They were Miro Barešić's killing of ambassador Vladimir Rolović, bomb attacks in Belgrade cinemas, terrorist group actions in Krajina region during the Croatian Spring of 1971, and the JAT Flight 367 bombing of 1972.\n\nThe organization published its own magazine, \"Drina\". Odpor was dissolved in 1991.\n", "id": "303764", "title": "Croatian National Resistance"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303767", "text": "Karel Plíhal\n\nKarel Plíhal (born August 23, 1958 in Přerov, Czechoslovakia) is a Czech folk musician, singer, songwriter, poet and record producer.\n\n\n", "id": "303767", "title": "Karel Plíhal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303769", "text": "D.C. United Academy\n\nThe D.C. United Academy is a program for young soccer players that is run by D.C. United, a pro soccer team that plays in Major League Soccer. The \"Academy\" trains these young soccer players to possibly one day play soccer either in a pro league or in college. \n\nD.C. United's Academy has several different levels, including, a U-23 team, a U-18 team, a U-16 team and then \"Pre-Academy\" teams. Pre-Academy teams are for players who are not yet part of the Academy on a normal schedule. \n\nThe teams compete in the United States Soccer Federations' Development Academy league.\n\n", "id": "303769", "title": "D.C. United Academy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303773", "text": "Bat-and-ball games\n\nBat-and-ball games are field games played by two teams. These teams take turns \"batting\" and \"fielding.\" The team that is batting can score. The team that is fielding is defending. Both teams have equal chances batting and fielding. Bat-and-ball games are not timed, but are counted (such as by number of \"innings\" or \"rounds\".)\n\nThe name bat-and-ball games comes from some common parts of most of these games. In most games, a player on the fielding team puts a ball into play. (How the player does this depends on the game's rules.) Then a player on the batting team tries to hit the ball, usually with a \"bat.\" A bat is a kind of club, though the size and shape depend on the rules.\n\nThe two most popular bat-and-ball games in the world are cricket and baseball. Games like golf and hockey, which also use clubs, are \"not\" bat-and-ball games. (In golf, there are no teams. In hockey, the teams do not take turns \"batting\" and \"fielding.\")\n", "id": "303773", "title": "Bat-and-ball games"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303777", "text": "Virus classification\n\nVirus classification is the way viruses are put into groups by scientists.\nThere are many different kinds of viruses. Scientists classify viruses to make it easier to learn about them. Classification also helps scientists to remember viruses and the diseases they cause. The International Committee of Taxonomy of Viruses (ICTV) is in charge of virus classification. \n\nSometimes different viruses have things in common. This is used in classification. For example, if they are made from DNA and protein, or RNA and protein. Other things that are taken into account are the size and shape of the viruses and the diseases they cause.\n\nSimilar viruses are first put into \"families\". Each family has a name. This family name always ends with \"\"-viridae\". For example, rotaviruses are in the \"Reoviridae\" family and herpes viruses are in the \"Herpesviridae\" family.\n\nViruses in any one family that are almost the same are then put in a smaller group called a \"genus\".\n\nAnother way of classifying viruses is called the Baltimore Classification. This is different from the ICTV one. Some scientists prefer the Baltimore Classification because it is based on how viruses grow in cells. \n", "id": "303777", "title": "Virus classification"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303783", "text": "Enterovirus\n\nEnteroviruses are a group of viruses that usually live in the gut of humans and other mammals. Most do not cause disease there. They can cause a mild form of meningitis, which is an infection near the brain. Some members of this group of viruses, such as poliovirus, can sometimes be more dangerous. They are viruses made for RNA and there are many different kinds of them.\n", "id": "303783", "title": "Enterovirus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303786", "text": "Explode (song)\n\n\"Explode\" is a song recorded by American musician Patrick Stump. The track is the opening song on his debut studio album \"Soul Punk\". The song was leaked on his YouTube channel on May 6, 2011 for promotion towards his album.\n\nOn May 6, 2011, Stump updated his website and also posted to his Facebook and Twitter, announcing \"I feel like I'm gonna explode 5.9.11\". The phrase came from a song called \"Explode\", which Stump had premiered at a live show. The new song was revealed on May 9, 2011. Stump released the song on a website called \"Vulture\". \"NyMag.com\" commented that the song is a lot like the music of Michael Jackson. They also said that it was similar to the music of Stump's old band, Fall Out Boy. The song's video caption, which read \"\"Soul Punk\": coming late Summer\", was Stump's first official announcement to the public regarding \"Soul Punk\"'s release date.\n\n\"Idolator\" reported that \"Explode\" features Stump's unique, recognisable vocals and the clever wordplay that used to be expected from Pete Wentz.\n", "id": "303786", "title": "Explode (song)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303789", "text": "Kingdom of Italy (1861–1946)\n\nThe Kingdom of Italy was the Italian state from its unification in 1861 to its defeat in WW2 and its dissolution in 1946 when it became the modern day, the Italian Republic.\n", "id": "303789", "title": "Kingdom of Italy (1861–1946)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303889", "text": "New Jersey Turnpike\n\nThe New Jersey Turnpike is a toll road in New Jersey. The road runs from near the Delaware Memorial Bridge in the southern part of the state northeast to near the George Washington Bridge in the northern part of the state near New York City. The northern part of the road is a part of Interstate 95. The New Jersey Turnpike is one of the busiest toll roads in the United States.\n", "id": "303889", "title": "New Jersey Turnpike"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303919", "text": "Selectivity\n\nSelectivity may refer to:\n\n", "id": "303919", "title": "Selectivity"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303932", "text": "Jordan at the Olympics\n\nJordan at the Olympicsis a history which began in 1980. \n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Jordan is JOR.\n\nTeams from Jordan have been in every Summer Olympic Games since. It has never been in the Winter Olympic Games. \n\nAs of 2011, no Jordanian athlete has ever won an Olympic medal. In the 1988 Seoul Games, Samer Kamal and Ihsan Abu Sheikha won bronze medals in Taekwondo. As this was Taekwondo's first time in the Olympics it was named a demonstration sport, not an official Olympic event. Ammar Fahed managed to get the third Jordanian bronze medal in Barcelona Olympic games 1992.\n\nThe National Olympic Committee for Jordan was formed in 1957 and recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1963.\n\n\n", "id": "303932", "title": "Jordan at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303936", "text": "Kazakhstan at the Olympics\n\nKazakhstan was first at the Olympic Games as an independent nation in 1994. They have been in every Games since. Prior to the dissolution of the Soviet Union, Kazakh athletes were part of the Soviet Union at the Olympics, and were also part of the Unified Team in 1992.\n\nKazakh athletes have won a total of 52 medals at the Summer Olympic Games, and another six at the Winter Olympic Games.\n\nThe National Olympic Committee for Kazakhstan was formed in 1990 and recognized in 1993.\n", "id": "303936", "title": "Kazakhstan at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303938", "text": "North Korea at the Olympics\n\nNorth Korea at the Olympics is a history which includes 17 games in 14 countries and 300+ athletes. Since 1946, North Korea has contributed to the growth of the \"Olympic Movement\".\n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for the North Korea was NKO. It is now PRK.\n\nThe North Korean National Olympic Committee was formed in 1953. It was recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1957. \n\nNorth Korea's team first competed at the 1964 Winter Olympics at Innsbruck .\n\n\n", "id": "303938", "title": "North Korea at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303940", "text": "South Korea at the Olympics\n\nSouth Korea at the Olympics is a history which includes 32 games in 18 countries and 2,000+ athletes. Since 1946, South Korea (KOR) has contributed to the growth of the \"Olympic Movement\".\n\nThe Korean National Olympic Committee was formed in 1946. It was recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1947. \n\nKorea's team first competed at the 1948 Summer Olympics in London.\n\nAthletes from Korea did not take part in the 1980 Summer Olympics and the 1952 Winter Olympics.\n\nTeam highlights include the bronze medal in the men's football tournament at the 2012 Summer Olympics. The win against Japan resulted in Korea's first medal in this sport.\n\nKorea hosted the 1988 Summer Olympics (XXIVth Olympiad) in Seoul.\n\nThe 2018 Winter Olympics will be held in Pyeongchang.\n\n\n", "id": "303940", "title": "South Korea at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303942", "text": "Kuwait at the Olympics\n\nKuwait has been in 10 Summer Olympic Games. They have never been in the Winter Olympic Games. \n\nIn the 1992 Barcelona Games, Kuwait received a bronze medal in taekwondo. It was only a demonstration sport that year so the medal was not official.\n\nThe National Olympic Committee for Kuwait was formed in 1957 and recognized in 1966.\n", "id": "303942", "title": "Kuwait at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303945", "text": "Kyrgyzstan at the Olympics\n\nKyrgyzstan has been in four Summer Games and four Winter Games as an independent state. They have won three medals. The nation was part of the Soviet Union before 1992. In 1992, Kyrgyzstan was on the Unified Team. Kyrgyzstan was at the 1994 Winter Olympics as their own country after the breakup of the Soviet Union.\n", "id": "303945", "title": "Kyrgyzstan at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303947", "text": "Laos at the Olympics\n\nLaos has been in seven Summer Olympic Games. They have never been in the Winter Olympic Games. They have never won a medal. \n\nThe National Olympic Committee of Lao was formed in 1975 and recognized in 1979.\n", "id": "303947", "title": "Laos at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303950", "text": "Lebanon at the Olympics\n\nLebanon at the Olympicsis a history which began in 1948. \n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Lebanon is LEB.\n\nA team from Lebanon was first at the Olympic Games in 1948. They have been in all but one Summer Olympic Games since then. Lebanon was one of three nations to boycott the 1956 Games in protest of the British and French involvement in the Suez Crisis.\nLebanon has also been in most Winter Olympic Games since 1948, missing only the 1994 and 1998 Winter Games.\n\nLebanon was at the 2010 Youth Olympic Games in Singapore.\n\nThe National Olympic Committee for Lebanon was formed in 1947. It was recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1948.\n\n", "id": "303950", "title": "Lebanon at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303966", "text": "Marie Stopes\n\nMarie Carmichael Stopes (Edinburgh, 15 October 1880 – Dorking, 2 October 1958) was a British palaeobotanist, author and campaigner for birth control.\n\nStopes' newsletter \"Birth Control News\", her book \"Married Love\", and her organisation Marie Stopes International, were hugely important in Britain and throughout the British Empire. She was the founder of British family planning, and fought many battles in print with those whose opinions differed from hers.\n\nStopes was one of the most highly educated women of her time. Her parents, who were both well educated, kept her away from school until she was twelve. She went to University College London in 1900, and graduated in 1902 with double honours in Botany and Geology. She was awarded a year's scholarship for research.\n\nStopes next went to the University of Munich, where she got a PhD in palaeobotany (fossil plants). She took the \"viva voce\" in German. In 1905 she became DSc (Doctor of Science) of the University of London. She was then the youngest holder of the Doctor of Science degree in England.\n\nStopes published about 100 papers and books on botany, mostly on fossil plants. She was expert on fossil ferns, cycads and gymnosperms. \n\nShe held a lecturership in palaeobotany at the University of Manchester from 1904 to 1907; she was first female academic of that university. In 1910, at the age of 30, she became a Fellow of University College London. She had reached the top of the tree. Not only was she a palaeobotanist, but she was an expert on the botany of the coal measures which were laid down in the Pennsylvanian (Upper Carboniferous). Coal was the most vital source of energy at that time.\n\nStopes continued to publish on botany until 1935, but by about 1912 her interests began to change because of problems in her private life. \n\nAfter a disastrous marriage, Stopes became aware of how ignorant many people were about sex, and what troubles women had inside marriage. Her goals were: improved happiness through better knowledge, and the protection of female health by controlling the pregnancies which naturally occurred in marriage.\n\nStopes' first book on family planning, \"Married Love: a new contribution to the solution of the sex difficulties\", 1918, ran to 28 editions and over 150 reprints. It was translated into 14 languages, and braille. The English-language version sold over a million copies, and made her rich. \n\nThe social effects of the book were tremendous. No-one can say why social changes take place, yet attitudes to sex and marriage certainly changed during her life. Between the first edition of her book and the last, the women of the Europe and North America changed from almost no birth control to most using birth control. This was despite the opposition of the Catholic Church and other forces.\n\nAlso, there has been a continuous improvement in knowledge about sex and in medical attention to female needs in relation to birth. The availability of knowledge on all subjects relating to personal life has continued to improve.\n\nLater in 1918 Stopes published a second book, \"Wise Parenthood: a sequel\". This ran to 25 editions and many reprints. in 1919 came \"A letter to working mothers on how to have healthy children and avoid weakening pregnancies\". The stream of books and pamphlets continued to the end of her life. \n\nStopes opened the UK's first family planning clinic at 61, Marlborough Road, Holloway, North London on 17 March 1921. In 1925 the Mothers' Clinic moved to Central London, where it remains to this day. \n\nThe parent body of Marie Stopes Clinics round the world is now called Marie Stopes International. It is especially strong in Bangladesh and Pakistan.\n\nStopes had a relationship with Japanese botanist Kenjiro Fujii (or Fugii). They met at the University of Munich in 1904 whilst she researched her Ph.D. It was serious, and in 1907 she went to be with him in Japan. However, the affair ended there. \n\nIn 1911 Stopes married Canadian botanist and geneticist Reginald Ruggles Gates. It was a disaster which changed her life. She got a divorce on the grounds that the marriage was never consummated. Her marriage to Gates was annulled in 1914.\n\nIn 1918 she married Humphrey Verdon Roe. He was the financial backer of her most famous work, \"Married Love\".\n\nStopes died at her home in Dorking, Surrey, UK from breast cancer.\n", "id": "303966", "title": "Marie Stopes"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303968", "text": "École normale supérieure\n\nÉcole normale supérieure is the name for a number of French higher education bodies, comparable to universities. In France, universities have to accept all students with a baccalaureat. This is different for the so called Grandes Ecoles, which includes the Ecoles normales supérieures. These schools do not have the obligation to accept anyone, and only a select few can attend studies at these institutions, most of whom will become part of the elite in various areas. Universities have faculties, and each faculty is responsible for one branch of studies. the ENS usually group similar subjects at one school, and do not have faculties.\n\n", "id": "303968", "title": "École normale supérieure"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303970", "text": "Malaysia at the Olympics\n\nMalaysia was first at the Olympic Games in 1956. \n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Malaysia was MAL. It is now MAS.\n\nTeams from Malaysia have been in every Summer Olympic Games since 1956, except the boycotted 1980 Summer Olympics. Malaysia has never been in the Winter Olympic Games.\n\nAs the Federation of Malaya, the nation was named\"Malaya\" (MAL) for the 1956 and 1960 Games. North Borneo sent an independent team to the 1956 Games, and Singapore had also competed at the Olympics from 1948 to 1960. After these British colonies formed an independent \"Malaysia\" in 1963, the nation competed under that name for the first time at the 1964 Summer Olympics. Singapore regained independence from Malaysia in 1965 and competed once again as Singapore at the Olympics from 1968 onwards.\n\nMalaysian athletes have won a total of six Olympic medals. Most are in badminton.\n\nThe National Olympic Committee for Malaysia was formed in 1953 and recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1954.\n\n\n", "id": "303970", "title": "Malaysia at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303973", "text": "Maldives at the Olympics\n\nThe Maldives were first at the Olympic Games in 1988. They have been in every Summer Olympic Games since then. The nation has never been in the Winter Olympic Games.\n\nAs of 2011, the Maldives has not won any medals at the Olympics. \n\nThe National Olympic Committee for Maldives was formed in 1985 and recognized by the International Olympic Committee that same year.\n", "id": "303973", "title": "Maldives at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303975", "text": "Mongolia at the Olympics\n\nMongolia at the Olympics is a history which began in 1956. \n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Mongolia is MGL.\n\nA team from Mongolia was first at the Olympic Games in 1964. They have been in every Summer Olympic Games since then, except the boycotted 1984 Summer Olympics.\n\nMongolia has also been in the Winter Olympic Games since 1964. They have missed only the 1976 Winter Games.\n\nMongolian athletes have won a total of nineteen medals, all in Summer Olympics competitions.\n\nThe Mongolian National Olympic Committee was formed in 1956 and recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1962.\n\n", "id": "303975", "title": "Mongolia at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303977", "text": "Myanmar at the Olympics\n\nMyanmar, also known as \"Burma\", was first at the Olympic Games in 1948.\n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Myanmar is MYA. In 1964, it was BUR for Burma.\n\nAthletes from this country have been in every Summer Olympic Games since then, except for the 1976 Games. The nation has never been in the Winter Olympic Games. Since the 1992 Games, the nation has been named \"Myanmar\" in Olympic competition.\n\nAs of 2011, no Burmese athlete has ever won an Olympic medal.\n\nThe National Olympic Committee for Myanmar was formed in 1947 and recognized by the International Olympic Committee that same year.\n\n\n", "id": "303977", "title": "Myanmar at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303979", "text": "Nepal at the Olympics\n\nNepal at the Olympics is a history which began in 1963. \n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Nepal is NEP.\n\nNepal has been in eleven Summer Olympic Games, and in three Winter Olympic Games. \n\nThe country has never won an official Olympic medal. Bidhan Lama won a bronze medal at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, when taekwondo was an exhibition sport.\n\nThe Nepal Olympic Committee was formed in 1962 and recognized in 1963.\n\n\n", "id": "303979", "title": "Nepal at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303981", "text": "Oman at the Olympics\n\nOman at the Olympics is a history which includes 8 games in 7 countries and 30+ athletes. Since 1982, OMan has contributed to the growth of the \"Olympic Movement\".\n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Oman is OMA.\n\nTeams from Oman have taken part in the Summer Olympic Games but not the Winter Olympic Games. No Oman athlete has won an Olympic medal.\n\nThe Oman Olympic Committee was formed and recognized in 1982.\n\n\n", "id": "303981", "title": "Oman at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303983", "text": "Pakistan at the Olympics\n\nPakistan at the Olympics is a history which includes 17 games in 13 countries and 300+ athletes. Since 1948, Pakistan has contributed to the growth of the \"Olympic Movement\".\n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Pakistan is PAK.\n\nThe Pakistan National Olympic Committee was formed in 1948. It was recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1948. \n\nPakistan's team first competed at the 1948 Summer Olympics in London. \n\nPakistan's first time in the Winter Olympic Games was at the Vancouver 2010 Winter Olympics.\n\n\n", "id": "303983", "title": "Pakistan at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304043", "text": "University of Tarapacá\n\nThe University of Tarapacá (in Spanish: \"Universidad de Tarapacá\") is a Chilean university with 3 headquarters located in Arica and one in Iquique. It's another university in the north of Chile.\n\nIt was founded on 1981 but starts in 1982. This university derives from the old headquarter of University of Chile in Arica.\n\n\n", "id": "304043", "title": "University of Tarapacá"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304071", "text": "Ostracoderm\n\nThe Oststracoderms are a class of extinct fish. They were bony-armoured jawless fish, the Osteostraci (\"bony shields\"). They lived in what is now North America, Europe and Russia from the Middle Silurian to Upper Devonian. They were the first fish to use gills just for respiration.\n\nOstracoderms were the first fossil fish to be discovered. They were found in the 1830s in the Old Red Sandstone of Scotland. The genus \"Cephalaspis\" is quite a common fossil in these rocks.\n", "id": "304071", "title": "Ostracoderm"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304087", "text": "Nancy Wake\n\nNancy Grace Augusta Wake (30 August 1912 – 7 August 2011) known as the \"White Mouse\", was an Australian who worked as a spy for the British in World War II. At one time she was on the top of the Gestapo's most wanted list. A novel by Sebastian Faulks based on her life called \"Charlotte Gray\", was later made into a movie starring Cate Blanchett.\n\nWake was born in Wellington, New Zealand in 1911, and moved to Australia when she was two. She ran away from home at the age of 16, and in 1935 went to London. She learned to be a journalist and worked in Paris. She married a rich factory owner, Henry Fioca in 1939. When the war started she became an ambulance driver. She soon became a part of a group led by Pat O'Leary (real name Albert Guérisse) which helped British soldiers escape from France. The Gestapo soon noticed her activities and she fled to Spain. Her husband was captured, tortured and shot dead.\n\nIn England she joined the Special Operation Executive (SOE). In April 1944, Wake was parachuted into France to work with the French Resistance before the D-Day landings. She was involved in several major battles with the German army. She is known to have killed an SS soldier with her bare hands.\n\nShe was given several important medals for bravery including the British George Medal, the French Croix de Guerre (on three occasions), the Médaille de la Résistance and she was made a Chevalier de la Légion d'Honneur. The Americans gave her the Medal of Freedom. In 2004 Australia made her a Companion of the Order of Australia.\n\nShe was an unusual woman for her time. She had a reputation among the soldiers she worked with for being a heavy drinker. Major John Farmer said about her drinking that \"...we just couldn't work out where it all went\". When the Australian government offered her a medal she said they could \"stick their medals where the monkey sticks his nuts\". She sold her medals to support her income in her old age. She said \"There was no point in keeping them, I'll probably go to hell and they'd melt anyway\".\n", "id": "304087", "title": "Nancy Wake"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304088", "text": "Erymanthian Boar\n\nIn Greek mythology, the Erymanthian Boar (Greek: ὁ Ἐρυμάνθιοs κάπρος; Latin: aper Erymanthius) is a creature. It is known in connection with The Twelve Labours, in which Heracles, the enemy of Hera, visited all the other sites of the Goddess throughout the world to defeat every monster that nature could imagine, and return the early world to his Olympian father, Zeus, who would be its new master. \n\n\n", "id": "304088", "title": "Erymanthian Boar"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304090", "text": "Mount Tamalpais\n\nMount Tamalpais (, known locally as \"Mount Tam\") is a mountain in Marin County, California, United States. It is the highest mountain in the Marin Hills. It is often seen as a symbol of Marin County.\n\nA lot of Mount Tamalpais is on protected public lands such as Mount Tamalpais State Park and the Mount Tamalpais Watershed. The elevation at the East Peak, its second highest point, is . The West Peak, the mountain's highest peak, is above sea level.\n", "id": "304090", "title": "Mount Tamalpais"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304105", "text": "Barnard's star\n\nBarnard's Star, also known as \"Barnard's Runaway Star\", is a very low-mass red dwarf star approximately six light-years away from Earth in the constellation of Ophiuchus (the Snake-holder). It is very old, and moving relatively fast.\n\nIn 1916, the American astronomer E. E. Barnard measured its proper motion as 10.3 arcseconds per year. This is the largest-known proper motion of any star relative to the Sun. At a distance of about 1.8 parsecs from the Solar System, or just under six light-years, Barnard's Star is the nearest known star in the constellation Ophiuchus, and the fourth-closest known individual star to the Sun, after the three components of the Alpha Centauri system. Despite its proximity, Barnard's Star, at a dim apparent magnitude of about nine, is not visible with the unaided eye; however, it is much brighter in infrared light than it is in visible light.\n\nBarnard's Star has been the subject of much study, and it has probably received more attention from astronomers than any other class M dwarf star due to its proximity and favorable location for observation near the celestial equator. Barnard's Star is also notable as the target for Project Daedalus, a study on the possibility of fast, unmanned travel to nearby star systems.\n\nAt seven to 12 billion years of age, Barnard's Star is considerably older than the Sun, and it might be among the oldest stars in the Milky Way galaxy. Barnard's Star rotates just once every 130 days (compared with just over 25 days for the Sun). In 1998 astronomers saw an intense flare, showing that Barnard's Star is a 'flare star'. Barnard's Star has the variable star designation V2500 Ophiuchi. \nThe proper motion of Barnard's Star is 'sideways' relative to our line of sight to the Sun of 90 kilometers per second (km/s). The 10.3 seconds of arc it travels annually amount to a quarter of a degree in a human lifetime, roughly half the angular diameter of the full Moon.\n\nThe radial velocity of Barnard's Star towards the Sun can be measured by its blue shift. These measurements, combined with proper motion, suggest a true velocity relative to the Sun of about 140 km/s.\n\nWhile Barnard's Star has the largest proper motion, the largest known true velocity of another star in the Milky Way belongs to Wolf 424 at 555 km/s. \n\nBarnard's Star will make its closest approach to the Sun around AD 11,700, when it approaches to within about 3.8 light-years. However, at that time, it will \"not\" be the nearest star, since Proxima Centauri will have moved even closer to the Sun. Barnard's Star will still be too dim to be seen with the naked eye at the time of its closest approach, since its apparent magnitude will be about 8.5 then. After that it will gradually recede from the Sun.\n", "id": "304105", "title": "Barnard's star"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304164", "text": "Punjabi language movement\n\nThe Punjabi Language Movement (PLM) is a linguistic movement in Punjab (Pakistan) aimed at reviving the Punjabi language, art, culture and literature in Pakistan. The Punjabi people constitute the largest ethnic group in Pakistan though Urdu is the national language and Punjabi itself does not have an official status. The PLM's ideologies are based on Punjabi nationalism. \n", "id": "304164", "title": "Punjabi language movement"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304165", "text": "Platanus orientalis\n\nPlatanus orientalis, also called Oriental plane tree and chenar, is a large, deciduous tree of the Platanaceae family. It is known for its longevity and spreading crown. \n\nThe species name derives from its historical distribution eastward from the Balkans, where it was recognized in ancient Greek history and literature. Following Greek usage it is called \"Platane\" or related names in Europe. It was equally as famous to the Iranian-speaking world and from Turkey to Occupied Kashmir is called \"Chenar\" or related names, following the Iranian. \n\nThe native range of the Oriental plane is Eurasia from the Balkans to as far east as at least Iran. Some accounts extend its native range to Iberia in the west, and to the Himalayas in the east. \n\nThe oriental plane is found naturally in riverine settings, together with such trees as alder, willow and poplar. However, it is quite capable of survival and success in dry soils once it is established. In Kashmir it is recognised as the State tree of the region.\n", "id": "304165", "title": "Platanus orientalis"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304342", "text": "Koi\n\nKoi (, Romaji: \"koi\") or more specifically nishikigoi (, literally \"brocaded carp\"), are ornamental varieties of common carp (\"Cyprinus carpio\") that are kept for decorative purposes in outdoor koi ponds or water gardens.\n\nKoi varieties are distinguished by coloration, patterning, and scalation. Some of the major colors are white, black, red, yellow, blue, and cream.\n\nIt is illegal to keep koi in Queensland, Australia because they are an invasive species.\n", "id": "304342", "title": "Koi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304524", "text": "Heathen Chemistry\n\nHeathen Chemistry is the fifth studio album by English rock band Oasis, released in 2002. It was the final album with drummer Alan White who left in 2004. White was replaced with Zak Starkey.\n\n", "id": "304524", "title": "Heathen Chemistry"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304539", "text": "Classical Chinese\n\nClassical Chinese or literary Chinese is a traditional register of written Chinese. It is based on the grammar and vocabulary of ancient Chinese, so it is different from any modern spoken form of Chinese. Classical Chinese was once used for almost all formal writing before and during the beginning of the 20th century in China, and during various different periods in Korea, Japan and Vietnam. Among Chinese speakers, Classical Chinese has been largely replaced by written vernacular Chinese, or 白话/白話 \"báihuà\" (\"plain speech\"). Written Vernacular Chinese is a writing style very closely related to modern spoken Mandarin Chinese. At the same time, non-Chinese speakers have largely given up Classical Chinese, and use their local languages or dialects instead.\n\nAlthough many words and phrases used in Classical Chinese have been replaced by words and phrases made up of different characters in Standard Chinese, many of the characters that were common in Classical Chinese can be found in modern Chinese words and phrases as well as retain their meanings. For example, while the word \"to eat\" is 食 (shí) in Classical Chinese, it is 吃 (chī) in Standard Chinese. However, the character 食 is still found in words related to food and eating like 食品 (shípĭn), which is the Standard Chinese word for \"food\". The chart below compares Classical Chinese words to the Standard Chinese words that replaced them. \nMany modern Chinese words and phrases either came from northern dialects or are loanwords from other languages such as Mongolian or Korean.\n\nDue to the changes of the spoken Chinese over the centuries, spoken Chinese lost many sounds that existed in older dialects, and therefore many words in Classical Chinese were beginning to sound too similar to each other. In other words, although documents written in Classical Chinese can be reaonably understood by someone who can read Chinese, they can be very difficult to understand when they are read aloud. One-syllable articles, or poems written in Classical Chinese in which every word in the poem is pronounced by the same syllable, are perfect examples that how impractical Classic is as a spoken language. The title of one poem 施氏食狮史 (\"Shī Shì Shí Shī Shǐ\"), known as the \"Lion-Eating Poet of the Stone Den\" in English, literally translates to \"The Story of Shi Shi Eating Lions\". Every single word of the poem is pronounced \"shi\", even though they have different tones. If the title were to be translated into Standard Chinese, it be read something like 施氏吃狮子的史诗 (Shī Shì chī shīzi de shǐshī\")\".\n\nStructurally, words in Classical Chinese tend to be much simpler because they are usually made up of one Chinese character, whereas most words in Standard Chinese are made of two to four characters. This is so that the writer can write what they want to write using as few characters as possible. Examples are found below.\nOnce again, due to the merging of Chinese sounds, extra characters are added to words in Standard Chinese to distinguish similar-sounding words that would otherwise be indistinguishable.\n\nExamples of phrases in Classical Chinese is Confucius's famous quote 有教無類 (yǒu jiào wú lèi), which roughly translates to, \"In education, there should be no class distinction.\"\n", "id": "304539", "title": "Classical Chinese"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304545", "text": "Marc Janko\n\nMarc Janko (born 25 June 1983 in Vienna) is an Austrian football striker. He plays for Twente Enschede in the Dutch Eredivisie. He is the son of Eva Janko who won a medal in the 1968 Summer Olympics.\n\nHe started in the youth ranks of Admira Wacker Mödling and became a professional player in 2002 for this club. In 2005 he went to F.C. Red Bull Salzburg. For Salzburg he scored 75 goals in 108 matches. The 2007/08 season was bad because he was injured most of the time. His most successful season was 2008/09 when he scored 39 goals in the league (and 9 assists). This was the club record. The old record was Oliver Bierhoff's. Janko reached it after half the season of the season (25 goals). In the match against SC Altachhe he scored all 4 goals in the 4:3 victory, when he came on in the second half. Only Hans Krankl scored more goals in a single season (41). Although many clubs were interested, he signed again with Red Bull Salzburg. 2010 he went to FC Twente in the Dutch Eredivisie where he scored 14 goals in 29 matches in his first year with the club.\n\nHe plays for the Austrian national football team. In 20 matches he scored 7 goals. His first match was in 2006 against Croatia.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "304545", "title": "Marc Janko"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304550", "text": "2010–11 Manchester United F.C. season\n\nThe 2011–12 season is Manchester United's 19th season in the Premier League.\n\nOn September, Nemanja Vidić named as Manchester United's new captain.\n\nManchester United started their season with a tour in North America that for the first time since 2004.\n\nCommunity Shield is match between the champions of Premier League and the champions of the FA Cup.\n", "id": "304550", "title": "2010–11 Manchester United F.C. season"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304552", "text": "Exergaming\n\nExergaming or exer-gaming (a portmanteau of \"exercise\" (moving the body) and \"gaming\") is a word used for video games that are also a form of exercise. Exergaming is based upon technology that records body movement. The game type has been credited with promoting an active lifestyle. Exergames are seen as coming from technology changes with the purpose of making videogames more fun.\n", "id": "304552", "title": "Exergaming"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304557", "text": "Standing on the Shoulder of Giants\n\nStanding on the Shoulder of Giants is the fourth studio album by English rock band Oasis, released on 28 February 2000.\n\nAll songs written by Noel Gallagher, except for \"Little James\".\n\nOasis\nGuest musicians\n", "id": "304557", "title": "Standing on the Shoulder of Giants"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304561", "text": "Communications satellite\n\nCommunications satellites are satellites stationed in space for the purpose of telecommunications. They relay radio waves between different places. Most are in synchronous orbit.\n\nSatellite based communication systems can be used for voice and data transmission in remote and underserved locations such as ships at sea. Satellite internet access is internet access provided through satellites. Satellite based systems can be used for providing high quality broadband internet connection to businesses.\n\nHerman Potočnik (writing as 'Herman Noordung') was the first to propose that space stations use radio to communicate with Earth. In October 1945 Arthur C. Clarke published an article titled \"Extraterrestrial relays\" in the British magazine \"Wireless World\". The article described artificial satellites in geostationary orbits to relay radio signals. So, Clarke is often quoted as being the inventor of the communications satellite.\n\nPrimitive communication satellites were tested in the early 1960s. Geosynchronous satellites became inpotant in the 1970s.\n", "id": "304561", "title": "Communications satellite"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304564", "text": "Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation\n\nThe Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is a non-profit organisation that donates money to fight diseases. It was founded by Bill Gates of Microsoft and his wife Melinda Gates. The money comes from the billions of dollars Bill Gates earned from his software business.\n", "id": "304564", "title": "Bill &amp; Melinda Gates Foundation"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304600", "text": "Mario Party\n\nMario Party can refer to the following:\n", "id": "304600", "title": "Mario Party"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304603", "text": "Mario Party (video game)\n\nMario Party is the first video game of the \"Mario Party\" series. It was made by Japanese company Nintendo and first party company Hudson. It was released for the Nintendo 64 in 1998. It is a party board game.\n", "id": "304603", "title": "Mario Party (video game)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304613", "text": "La Paz\n\nNuestra Señora de La Paz (; ; ) is the capital of Bolivia, and La Paz Department. It is the second largest city (in people) only after Santa Cruz de la Sierra. It is in the western part of the country in the department of the same name. It is at an elevation of above sea level, making it the world's highest \"de facto\" capital city.\n", "id": "304613", "title": "La Paz"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304614", "text": "Delaware Route 82\n\nDelaware Route 82 (DE 82) is a state highway in the northwest suburbs of Wilmington in New Castle County, Delaware. The route runs from DE 52 near Greenville to the Pennsylvania border near Yorklyn. There it continues as Pennsylvania Route 82 (PA 82). The route passes through areas of trees and fields in the north part of New Castle County. A lot of the route passes next to the Red Clay Creek. All of the route is a part of the Red Clay Valley Scenic Byway, made in 2005. DE 82 was first given its number by 1952. It was signed onto the same road it is on today. In 2010, DelDOT had planned to remove the route number. But it did not happen because people did not want the route number to be removed.\n\nDE 82 heads to the west of DE 52 near Greenville as Campbell Road. The road has two lanes cars can travel on without a median, which is a physical divider between the travel lanes in each direction. East of DE 52, the road continues to DE 100 as Kirk Road. The road passes areas of homes with trees and fields. Then it crosses over the Hoopes Reservoir. Not far after the reservoir, DE 82 makes a left turn onto New London Road to go south. The route passes through large areas of trees, turning to the west as it makes many turns. The road goes near more fields and homes in a rural area before coming to an intersection with Mt. Cuba Road. Here, DE 82 goes northwest on Creek Road and passes next to the Red Clay Creek and the Wilmington and Western Railroad on a road with many trees. It makes more turns and goes over the creek two times before crossing the railroad two times. In this area, the route passes the Ashland Nature Center. The route comes to the community of Yorklyn, where the route turns southwest for a short time and passes a few buildings in rural areas. After making a turn to the northwest to go on Creek Road, DE 82 heads north next to the Red Clay Creek. The Wilmington and Western Railroad turns to the southwest away from the road. A short distance past Yorklyn, the route comes to the Pennsylvania border, where it becomes PA 82 and goes toward Kennett Square, Pennsylvania. All of DE 82 is a part of the Red Clay Valley Scenic Byway, a scenic byway (road) name given to many roads in the Red Clay Creek valley.\n\nWhen Delaware started giving numbers to state highways in the 1930s, the road that is DE 82 today did not have a number. By 1952, DE 82 was made on the road it follows today to go between PA 82 to DE 52 near Greenville. DE 82 became part of the Red Clay Valley Scenic Byway, the second scenic byway in Delaware, in 2005. In 2010, DelDOT planned to remove the DE 82 signs in order to keep the route as a scenic byway. After a public workshop on the proposed sign removal was held, DelDOT decided in April 2010 to keep the DE 82 signs because \npeople in the area did not like the plan to remove the signs.\n\nThe entire route is in New Castle County.\n", "id": "304614", "title": "Delaware Route 82"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304616", "text": "Delaware Route 52\n\nDelaware Route 52 is a state highway in Delaware. It goes from Wilmington north to the Pennsylvania border.\n", "id": "304616", "title": "Delaware Route 52"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304618", "text": "Pennsylvania Route 82\n\nPennsylvania Route 82 is a state highway in Pennsylvania. It goes from the Delaware border north to Elverson.\n", "id": "304618", "title": "Pennsylvania Route 82"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304619", "text": "Delaware Route 100\n\nDelaware Route 100 is a state highway in Delaware. It goes from Elsmere north to the Pennsylvania border.\n", "id": "304619", "title": "Delaware Route 100"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304620", "text": "Greenville, Delaware\n\nGreenville is a place in Delaware in the United States. It is in New Castle County, which is in the north part of the state. It is north of Wilmington.\n", "id": "304620", "title": "Greenville, Delaware"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304621", "text": "Yorklyn, Delaware\n\nYorklyn is a place in Delaware in the United States. It is in New Castle County, which is in the north part of the state. It is north of Wilmington.\n", "id": "304621", "title": "Yorklyn, Delaware"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304622", "text": "Kennett Square, Pennsylvania\n\nKennett Square is a borough in Pennsylvania in the United States. It is in Chester County, which is in the southeast part of the state.\n", "id": "304622", "title": "Kennett Square, Pennsylvania"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304623", "text": "Red Clay Creek\n\nThe Red Clay Creek is a creek in Delaware and Pennsylvania in the United States. It goes into the White Clay Creek near Wilmington, Delaware.\n", "id": "304623", "title": "Red Clay Creek"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304624", "text": "Wilmington and Western Railroad\n\nThe Wilmington and Western Railroad is a tourist railroad near Wilmington, Delaware in the United States.\n", "id": "304624", "title": "Wilmington and Western Railroad"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304639", "text": "John Stossel\n\nJohn F. Stossel is an American libertarian author, columnist, investigative reporter, and television host. He works for Fox News Channel and Fox Business Network. He used to report for \"20/20\" on ABC.\n\n", "id": "304639", "title": "John Stossel"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304642", "text": "List of numbered routes in Delaware\n\nThe following is a List of numbered routes in Delaware, made up of Interstate highways, U.S. routes, and state routes. The Delaware Department of Transportation is responsible for taking care of the numbered roads in Delaware. State routes in Delaware use a highway sign that has the numbers in a white circle on a black square. Delaware's numbering system is like that of the U.S. Highways in that odd numbered highways (1, 3, 5, 7, or 9) travel north-south and even numbered routes (2, 4, 6, 8, or 0) go east-west. The numbers get bigger as one goes south and west respectively. There are some numbers that do not follow this, however, mostly with routes from other states keeping their number as they enter Delaware.\nThe first numbered routes in Delaware came in 1925 with the creation of the U.S. Highway System, in which US 13, US 40, and US 113 were made by law to run through the state. In 1930 and again in 1932, the Delaware State Highway Department suggested giving numbers to state roads to go along with the existing U.S. Highway System. By 1936, Delaware began giving numbers to state routes. In 1956, the Interstate Highway System was made, with under 40 miles of Interstate highway made by law in New Castle County.\n\n", "id": "304642", "title": "List of numbered routes in Delaware"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304645", "text": "Delaware Department of Transportation\n\nThe Delaware Department of Transportation (DelDOT) is in charge of transportation in Delaware in the United States. It owns many roads and runs DART First State, which does public transportation in the state.\n", "id": "304645", "title": "Delaware Department of Transportation"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304652", "text": "Nasi kucing\n\nNasi kucing (also called sego kucing), meaning cat rice or cat's rice, is an Indonesian rice dish. It comes from Yogyakarta, Semarang, and Surakarta. It can now be found in many places. It is a small serving of rice with different toppings. Often the toppings include chili sauce, dried fish, and tempeh. It is wrapped in banana leaves. \n\nThe name \"nasi kucing\", which means \"cat rice\" or \"cat's rice\", comes from the size of the rice served. There is very little rice, almost like what a Javanese person would give to a cat.\n\n\"Nasi kucing\" was first served in Yogyakarta, Semarang, and Surakarta. Now it can be found in many places. It can be found in Jakarta and even Mecca; in Mecca it is sold by Indonesian workers during the hajj.\n\nThe rice part of \"nasi kucing\" is small, about as big as a fist. It is served with different toppings. The toppings often include \"sambal\" (chili sauce), dried fish, and tempeh. Sometimes the toppings can be egg, chicken, and cucumber. It is able to be eaten immediately after it is bought. It is served wrapped in a banana leaf and paper. \n\nAnother version of \"nasi kucing\", called \"sego macan\" (meaning \"tiger's rice\") is three times the size of a regular portion of \"nasi kucing\". \"Sego macan\" is served with roasted rice, dried fish, and vegetables. Like \"nasi kucing\", \"sego macan\" is served wrapped in a banana leaf and paper.\n\n\"Nasi kucing\" is often sold at a low price. Sometimes \"nasi kucing\" can be as cheap as Rp 1000 (US$ 0.12). \"Sego macan\" can be about Rp 4000 (US$ 0.48). It is often sold at small food stalls called \"angkringan\", which are located at the side of many roads. The customers are often poorer people, including pedicab and taxi drivers, students, and street musicians. This has led to \"angkringan\" being called the \"lowest class of eatery\".\n\nThe owners of the \"angkringan\" often come from poorer families, may have few skills that can be used to find a job, or come from far-away villages. To open their stalls, they borrow money from a patron, called a \"juragan\". They may borrow up to Rp 900,000.00 (US$ 105.00). The seller must repay the patron from the net profits of Rp 15,000.00 – Rp 20,000.00 (US$ 1.75 – 2.35) a day.\n\n", "id": "304652", "title": "Nasi kucing"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304676", "text": "Hyponatremia\n\nHyponatremia (British English: hyponatraemia) is when a human body does not have enough salt (sodium) in its blood. It is mostly caused by the presence of too much water.\n\nHyponatremia is most often a complication of other medical illnesses in which excess water collects in the body faster than can be excreted (for example in congestive heart failure, syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH), or polydipsia). Some runners who drink a lot of water before running a marathon also suffer this illness. Drinking too much water can impair the ability of marathon runners.\n", "id": "304676", "title": "Hyponatremia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304683", "text": "George II\n\nKing George II may mean one of two people: \n\n", "id": "304683", "title": "George II"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304685", "text": "Mission: Impossible (movie)\n\nMission Impossible is a 1996 American spy/action adventure thriller movie starring Tom Cruise and directed by Brian De Palma. It is set in London, Prague and Virginia. It was followed by \"\", \"\", \"\", \"\".\n\n", "id": "304685", "title": "Mission: Impossible (movie)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304686", "text": "Marlin\n\nMarlins, family Istiophoridae, are fish with an elongated body, a spear-like snout or bill, and a long rigid dorsal fin, which extends forward to form a crest. Its common name is thought to derive from its resemblance to a sailor's marlinspike. Even more so than their close relatives the scombrids, marlin are incredibly fast swimmers, marlins are fast swimmers, reaching speeds of about .\n\nMarlin are rarely table fare, appearing mostly in fine restaurants. Most modern sport fishermen release marlin after unhooking.\n", "id": "304686", "title": "Marlin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304687", "text": "Pufferfish\n\nThe pufferfish is a family of fish, with about 100 species. They are also known as the blowfish, fugu, swellfish, and globefish. They are called the pufferfish because when they are threatened, they puffs up to about twice their normal size by gulping water. In this enlarged state, the pufferfish can swim at only about half their normal speed. Pufferfish are generally believed to be the second-most poisonous vertebrates in the world, after the golden poison frog. They use tetrodotoxin, a powerful neurotoxin.\n\nMost pufferfish are found in sub-tropical and tropical marine waters (including coral reefs) in the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans. Some puffers live in brackish and fresh water. \n\nThe scientific name refers to the four large teeth, fused into an upper and lower plate, which are used for crushing the shells of crustaceans and mollusks, their natural prey.\n\nEven though pufferfish are poisonous, the meat of some species is eaten in Japan (as 河豚, pronounced 'fugu'), Korea (as 복 bok or 복어 bogeo ), and China (as 河豚 hétún). It is prepared by specially trained chefs who know which parts, and how much of them, are safe to eat.\n\nSome people also keep pufferfish as pets.\n", "id": "304687", "title": "Pufferfish"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304688", "text": "Fort Kent, Maine\n\nFt. Kent is a town in northern Maine. It touches the Canadian border.\n", "id": "304688", "title": "Fort Kent, Maine"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304692", "text": "Oxytocin\n\nOxytocin is a hormone found in mammals. It acts on the brain. In humans it is released during female reproduction, especially during and after childbirth. \n\nIt has other effects. It encourages pair bonding, and parental behaviour. It is released during intimate moments during orgasms and even hugs. For this reason it is often called the 'love hormone'.\n\nStrange to say, the oxytocin released by the pituitary gland cannot reach the brain: it does have effects on the rest of the body. The reason is that there is a bloodbrain barrier which prevents large molecules from getting into the brain. Instead, the hormone is produced by special nerve cells inside the brain. \n\nOxytocin is also released through the use of recreational drugs like MDMA and some prescription anti-depressants.\n\nOxytocin was the first polypeptide hormone to be sequenced and synthesized, by Vincent du Vigneaud and colleagues in 1953.\n", "id": "304692", "title": "Oxytocin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304694", "text": "Phil Jones (footballer)\n\nPhilip Anthony \"Phil\" Jones (born 21 February 1992) is an English footballer. Jones plays as a defender for Manchester United and the England under-21 national team. He played for west ham united at both youth and senior levels before joining Manchester United. Jones usually plays central defender, but can also play as a right back or defensive midfielder.\n\nJones was born in Preston, Lancashire. He grew up in Clayton-le-Woods. He joined west ham united.' youth team in 2002. He joined the senior team for the 2009–10 Premier League season. Jones signed a two-year contract with the team. He wore uniform number 28 for Blackburn. He played his first game for Blackburn on 22 September 2009 in a League Cup game against Nottingham Forest. Blackburn won 1–0. In February 2010, he signed a new five-year contract. The contract had a £16 million release clause. Jones made his first Premier League start for west ham against Chelsea on 21 March. The game was a 1–1 draw at Ewood Park.\n\nJones started the 2010–11 season in midfield. He became one of the starters for the team. Jones hurt his knee in a game against [[West Ham United aston villa] in December 2010. He could not play for three months because of the [[injury]].\n\nOn 13 June 2011, Manchester United said that they had reached a deal to sign Jones. The deal was for an undisclosed transfer fee. The deal would be finished upon his return from international games. He played his first game for the club on the 2011 pre-season tour to the USA, in United's 3–1 victory over [[Chicago Fire Soccer Club|Chicago Fire]]. Jones played as a second-half [[substitute]], replacing [[Rio Ferdinand]], in a 3–2 win over [[Manchester derby|rivals]] [[Manchester City F.C.|Manchester City]] in the [[2011 FA Community Shield|2011 Community Shield]]. Jones played in his first Premier League game for United a week later. He entered again as a substitute for Ferdinand. United beat [[West Bromwich Albion F.C.|West Bromwich Albion]] 2–1 on the opening weekend.\n\nJones played his first game for the [[England national under-19 football team|England under-19]] team in the 3–1 win over [[Turkey national under-19 football team|Turkey]] on 17 November 2009. He has since played three more times for the under-19s.\n\nOn 4 August 2010, Jones joined the [[England national under-21 football team|England under-21]] squad. On 10 August, Jones won his first under-21 [[Cap (sport)|cap]], starting for England against Uzbekistan. He was [[Substitute (association football)|substituted]] in the 46th minute and was replaced by [[Liverpool F.C.|Liverpool]]'s [[Martin Kelly]]. He was selected for the [[2011 UEFA European Under-21 Football Championship|2011 U-21 European Championship]] in [[Denmark]]. [[Manager]] [[Stuart Pearce]] made Jones the [[Captain (association football)|captain]] of the team.\n\nIn 5 August 2011, he joined the England first-team squad for the [[friendly]] against [[Netherlands national football team|the Netherlands]]. The game was cancelled four days later by [[The Football Association|the FA]] after the [[2011 London riots|riots in London]].\n\nIn November 2011, he competed in two home games for England at Wembley. The first was a 1-0 win against the world champions, Spain. The second was also a 1-0 win over Sweden. In both games he played midfield, this is in contrast to his 'right back' role for his club side, Manchester United.\n\n\n\n[[Category:1992 births]]\n[[Category:Living people]]\n[[Category:2014 FIFA World Cup players]]\n[[Category:English footballers]]\n[[Category:Manchester United F.C. players]]\n[[Category:People from Preston, Lancashire]]\n[[Category:Sportspeople from Lancashire]]", "id": "304694", "title": "Phil Jones (footballer)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304695", "text": "Bob Burnquist\n\nBob Burnquist is a professional skateboarder from Sao Paulo, Brazil. He is in Tony Hawks Pro Skater video games.\n", "id": "304695", "title": "Bob Burnquist"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304698", "text": "Aermacchi M.B.339\n\nAermacchi M.B.339 was built by Alenia Aermacchi. The creation of this type was requested by the Aernautica Militaire. They wanted to use it as new trainer.\n\nBased on Aermacchi M.B. 326, M.B. 339 is a direct successor of this type. The changes made on the cockpit, front parts and tail-end result in new product. The delivery has started in 1978. From 1982, those planes became the main plane of the Italian flight group Frecce Tricolori. This plane has been exported in 8 countries. The later types like M.B. 339 CD/FD have been produced only for Frecce Tricolori and can be seen as 4th generation fighters.\n", "id": "304698", "title": "Aermacchi M.B.339"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304705", "text": "Ocean sunfish\n\nThe Ocean sunfish (\"Mola mola\", also called the mola or sun fish) is a large ocean fish found in warm and temperate oceans. It has an almost circular, flattened body. This unusual fish swims by flapping its long pectoral and dorsal fins; the caudal fin is used as a rudder (for steering). Some sunfish have been seen floating on their sides at the top of the sea; they may be using the sun to heat themselves up. They eat crustaceans, starfish, jellyfish, sponges, mollusks, algae, plankton, squid, and small fish.\nThe species is native to tropical and temperate waters around the globe. It resembles a fish head with a tail, and its main body is flattened laterally.\n", "id": "304705", "title": "Ocean sunfish"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304708", "text": "Remora\n\nRemora sometimes called a suckerfish or sharksucker, is an elongated, brown fish in the order Perciformes and family Echeneidae. They are small fish that live on and around sharks. They eat stray bits of food left by the shark and tiny shrimp-like parasites that live on the shark's skin. They have sucker-like disks on their heads with which they attach to the shark. \nBoth the shark and the remora benefit from the pairing, but the remore benefits much more; this is commensalism. Remora are also known as sucker fish or shark sucker.\n", "id": "304708", "title": "Remora"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304713", "text": "Rick Snyder\n\nRichard Dale Snyder (born August 19, 1958) is an American politician, business executive, venture capitalist, and accountant who is the 48th and current Governor of Michigan. A member of the Republican Party, he became governor on January 1, 2011. \n", "id": "304713", "title": "Rick Snyder"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304717", "text": "Bibliomania\n\nBibliomania can be a symptom of obsessive-compulsive disorder, by collecting of books to the point where social relations or health are in danger. It can be connected to stealing (kleptomania) of books.\n\nBibliomania is not to be confused with bibliophilia, which is the usual love of books.\n\nDon Quixote may be the most famous bibliomaniac in fiction.\n", "id": "304717", "title": "Bibliomania"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304718", "text": "Jersey Shore\n\nThe Jersey Shore is the name for the part of New Jersey that is along the Atlantic Ocean.\n", "id": "304718", "title": "Jersey Shore"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304723", "text": "Jefferson Cardoso dos Santos\n\nJefferson Cardoso dos Santos (15 February 1986 in São Vicente, Brazil) is a Brazilian footballplayer. He plays for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga. He is a defender.\n\nHe started playing football with his local club São Vicente Atlético Clube and then went on to Jabaquara Atlético Clube in Brazils 4th league. He became Champion with this team and then went on to Red Bull Brasil. With this team he was two times promoted. In summer 2011 he and his team mate Alex Rafael were invited to train with F.C. Red Bull Salzburg. He played two test matches for Salzburg (Bayer 04 Leverkusen, Olympique Lyon). He convinced the club and so he was signed for Red Bull Salzburg. After some matches as substitution he played his first match in the starting team on 21 August 2011 in a league match versus S.K. Sturm Graz.\n\n", "id": "304723", "title": "Jefferson Cardoso dos Santos"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304736", "text": "2010 Russian Premier League\n\nThe 2010 Russian Premier League was the 19th season of the Russian Premier League. The team with the most points was Zenit St. Petersburg, with 68 points. CSKA Moscow was second with 62 points. The season started on March 12, 2010. The last match was played November 29, 2010. On November 14, 2010, Zenit St. Petersburg claimed their titles after a 5-0 win against FC Rostov. Lastly, this season was Saturn Moscow Oblast's last season. The team was dissolved after.\n", "id": "304736", "title": "2010 Russian Premier League"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304739", "text": "List of FIFA World Cup goalscorers\n\nThis is a list of FIFA World Cup goalscorers. This is until the 2014 World Cup.\n\nCurrently, Miroslav Klose has the most with 16 goals.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "304739", "title": "List of FIFA World Cup goalscorers"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304742", "text": "Chillán Viejo\n\nChillán Viejo is a Chilean commune in the south of Chillán. According to the Chilean , Chillán Viejo has an area of and 26,172 inhabitants.\n\nThis commune began in 1895. Thanks to an administrative crisis, the title of commune was revoked on 1927. Finally, in 1995, during the promulgation of a law in the government of the now ex-president Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle, Chillán Viejo is again a commune.\n\nThe colonial house where Bernardo O'Higgins born on 1778.\n\n\n", "id": "304742", "title": "Chillán Viejo"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304750", "text": "Pyramid scheme\n\nA pyramid scheme is a way of making money that cannot continue very long. It involves promising people payment, services or ideals, primarily for enrolling other people into the scheme or training them to take part. It does not supply any real investment or sale of products or services to the public. Pyramid schemes are a form of fraud. For this reason, pyramid schemes are illegal in many countries. \n\nThis type of scheme has existed for at least a century (100 years). The way the scheme is described is sometimes changed to hide what it is doing. Many people believe that multilevel marketing (MLM) is also a pyramid scheme.\n\nA successful pyramid scheme combines a business that seems real with a simple-to-understand money-making description which is used for profit. The idea is that the first person, Mr. X, makes a payment. To get money, Mr. X has to recruit others like him who will also make a payment. Mr. X gets paid out of money received from those new people (recruits). The recruits go on to involve others. As each new recruit makes a payment, Mr. X gets a part. He is promised always increasing benefits as the \"business\" expands.\nSuch \"businesses\" do not have real products or services. To make them more believable, most such scams have fake letters from successful members and information. Only the first person (sometimes called the \"pharaoh\") and a very few at the top levels of the pyramid make a lot of money. The amounts get much smaller further down the pyramid. Someone at the bottom of the pyramid loses money. They paid to enter, but cannot get anyone else to join.\n\nRecruiting a large number of others into a scheme can be difficult so a system is used that seems more simple. In this model each person must recruit only two others. However, a larger number of levels is needed before the person gets paid any money. The scheme requires a person to recruit two others, who must each recruit two others, who must each recruit two others. \nThe \"eight-ball\" model contains a total of fifteen members. This scheme has been called the \"Airplane Game\" and the four tiers labelled as \"captain,\" \"co-pilot,\" \"crew,\" and \"passenger\" to denote a person's level. \nSuch schemes may hide their pyramid nature by calling themselves as \"gifting circles\" with money being \"gifted.\" The eight passengers must each pay (or \"gift\") a sum (e.g. $1,000) to join the scheme. This total of $8,000 goes to the captain who leaves the scheme. Everyone remaining moves up one level. There are now two new captains so the group splits in two with each group requiring eight new passengers. A person who joins the scheme as a passenger will not get any money until they advance through the crew and co-pilot levels to captain. Therefore, the participants in the bottom 3 tiers of the pyramid lose their money if the scheme collapses. Popular schemes such as the \"Women Empowering Women\" do this.\n", "id": "304750", "title": "Pyramid scheme"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304755", "text": "The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales\n\nThe Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales is a children's book by Jon Scieszka. It was published in 1992 by Viking. It is a collection of stories which make fun of famous children's stories and fairy tales, such as \"Chicken Licken\", \"The Gingerbread Man\" (changed to The Stinky Cheese Man of the title), \"The Ugly Duckling\", and others. It was illustrated by Lane Smith, who won the Caldecott Honor for his illustrations. This book also won the New York Times Best Illustrated Book award, among numerous awards in many countries.\n\nThe book was also re-released in a new edition in 2002 to celebrate its tenth anniversary. This new edition also included a story which had been listed in the Table of Contents of the previous editions, but had not appeared anywhere in the book. This story was printed on the back of the dust jacket.\n", "id": "304755", "title": "The Stinky Cheese Man and Other Fairly Stupid Tales"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304758", "text": "Palestine at the Olympics\n\nPalestine at the Olympics is a history which includes 5 games in 5 countries and 10+ athletes. Since 1996, Palestine (PLE) has contributed to the growth of the \"Olympic Movement\".\n\nPalestine has been at the Summer Olympics since 1996. Since 1986 Palestine is part of the Olympic Council of Asia (OCA). Palestine has not won any Olympic medals.\n\n\n", "id": "304758", "title": "Palestine at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304760", "text": "São Paulo Museum of Art\n\nThe São Paulo Museum of Art is an art museum on Paulista Avenue in the city of São Paulo, Brazil. The museum opened in 1968.\n", "id": "304760", "title": "São Paulo Museum of Art"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304761", "text": "Philippines at the Olympics\n\nPhilippines at the Olympics is a history which includes 23 games in 16 countries and 370+ athletes. Since 1911, the Philippines has contributed to the growth of the \"Olympic Movement\".\n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for the Philippines is PHI.\n\nThe Philippine National Olympic Committee was formed in 1911. It was recognized by the International Olympic Committee in 1929. \n\nPhilippines's team first competed at the 1924 Summer Olympics in Paris.\n\nThe team did not compete in the 1980 Summer Olympics. \n\nFilipino athletes have also been at the Winter Olympic Games three times after 1972, but not since 1994. The Philippines is the first nation in the tropics to be in the Winter Olympic Games.\n\n\n", "id": "304761", "title": "Philippines at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304763", "text": "Robert Louis Stevenson\n\nRobert Louis Balfour Stevenson (Edinburgh, 13 November 1850 – 3 December 1894) was a Scottish writer. He wrote 13 novels. He also wrote short stories, poems, and travel books. \n\nStevenson is known for his books, \"Treasure Island\", \"Kidnapped\", and \"Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\". In 1857 Stevenson went to a school called Mr Henderson's School in India Street, Edinburgh. When poor health stopped him going to school, he had private tutors teaching him. \n\n", "id": "304763", "title": "Robert Louis Stevenson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304764", "text": "Qatar at the Olympics\n\nQatar at the Olympics is a history which includes 8 games in 7 countries and 100+ athletes. Since 1979, Oman has contributed to the growth of the \"Olympic Movement\".\n\nThe International Olympic Committee's official abbreviation for Qatar is QAT.\n\nThe Qatar Olympic Committee was formed in 1979 and recognized by the IOC in 1980.\n\nTeams from Qatar have taken part in the Summer Olympic Games but not the Winter Olympic Games.\n\nAfter the 2008 Summer Olympics, Qatar was, along with Saudi Arabia and Brunei, one of only three countries to never send a female athlete to the Olympic Games. The International Olympic Committee in 2010 said it would \"press\" these countries to have women's participate. Then the Qatar Olympic Committee said it \"hoped to send up to four female athletes in shooting and fencing\" to the 2012 Summer Games in London. \n\n\n", "id": "304764", "title": "Qatar at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304766", "text": "The Westing Game\n\nThe Westing Game is a mystery novel written by Ellen Raskin. It was published in 1978 and it won the Newbery Medal in 1979. It was made into a movie which was released in 1997. This movie was released under both the names \"The Westing Game\" and \"Get a Clue\".\n", "id": "304766", "title": "The Westing Game"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304767", "text": "Selous' zebra\n\nThe Selous' zebra (\"Equus quagga borensis\") is one of the six subspecies of the plains zebra (\"Equus quagga\"). Selous' Zebra is a critically endangered species. These are often confused with the Damaraland zebras (\"Equus quagga antiquorum\"), and the Chapman Zebra (\"Equus quagga chapmani\"). The Selous' Zebra's belly is partly striped and they have clean black and white banding. They do not have the brown shadow stripes of the Chapman Zebra. \n\nSelous's Zebra lives in the northwest of Kenya, parts of Uganda, and the southeast of Sudan.\n", "id": "304767", "title": "Selous' zebra"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304769", "text": "Saudi Arabia at the Olympics\n\nSaudi Arabia has been in eight Summer Olympic Games. They first were in the 1972 Summer Olympics in Munich, West Germany. They have never been in the Winter Olympic Games. \n\nBy Saudi Arabian law, women cannot be in the Olympic Games. However, the International Olympic Committee is reportedly pressuring the Saudi Olympic Committee to send female athletes to the 2012 Summer Olympics. Others want Saudi Arabia to not be in the Olympics unless they let women in. \n\nThe Saudi Arabian Olympic Committee was formed in 1964 and recognized in 1965.\n\n", "id": "304769", "title": "Saudi Arabia at the Olympics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304800", "text": "BMW in Formula One\n\nBMW has been in Formula One since the beginning of the World Drivers' Championship in . BMW entered several races in the 1950s and 1960s. Often, they ran using the Formula Two rules. In the 1980s, they built the BMW M12/13 inline-four turbocharged engine. This engine was built for the Brabham team. Nelson Piquet won the championship driving a Brabham-BMW. BMW also supplied the M12/13 engine to the ATS, Arrows, Benetton and Ligier teams. In , Brabham left F1 for the season, and BMW stopped its official backing of the engines. Arrows still used the engine with the Megatron name. When Formula One banned turbocharged engines in , the M12/13 could no longer be used.\n\nBMW returned to Formula One in . They made a deal to supply engines to only the Williams team. The engine was a new V10 engine. The engine deal with Williams ended after the season. BMW then bought the rival Sauber team. The BMW Sauber project lasted from until . Sauber, a former privateer team, became more competitive. In , Robert Kubica won the team's only race, the Canadian Grand Prix, with Nick Heidfeld finishing second. After the 2009 season, BMW withdrew from F1. They sold the team back to its founder, Peter Sauber.\n\nThe early years of the World Drivers' Championship saw private BMW racing cars, based on the pre-war BMW 328 chassis. They were entered in the German Grands Prix in and . A modified 328 with a rear engine became standard in Formula One in the early 1960s. It was known as the \"Heck\", the German automotive term for \"back\" or \"rear\". This design later found success with the Cooper team.\n\nIn German Grand Prix, BMW entered Hubert Hahne in a Lola chassis powered by an larger BMW engine, and David Hobbs in the Lola with the standard smaller BMW engine. For the German Grand Prix, Hahne returned and finished tenth, BMW's best result in Formula One to that date. BMW then entered three of its own 269 F2 chassis for the German Grand Prix for Hahne, Gerhard Mitter and Dieter Quester. Mitter was killed in a practice accident. The remaining BMW team withdrew from the race. BMW left F1 for a number of years.\n\nIn , Renault entered Formula One with a turbocharged engine. After the success Renault had, BMW decided to develop its own turbo engine. BMW announced the new program in April 1980. The engine was based on the BMW M10, a four-cylinder, 1.5 litre, normally aspirated (non-turbocharged) engine designed in the late 1950s. The racing version, the M12, had been successful in Formula Two and other series. The prototype 1.4 litre turbo engine soon developed 600 bhp. It used a single Kühnle, Kopp & Kausch (KKK) turbocharger, Bosch electronics, and fuel injection. This engine was developed into the M12/13, the race engine BMW supplied to five teams from 1982 to 1988.\n\nBMW first made a deal to supply the M12/13 engine only to the Brabham. Testing of the M12/13 started in late 1980. A new car, Brabham BT50 was design for the engine. The new car was not finished until will into the season. The team's lead driver, Nelson Piquet, tested the BT50 throughout 1981. The car was unreliable until Bosch improved the electronics.\n\nBrabham began the 1982 season with two BMW-powered BT50 chassis. Because of reliability problems, the BT50 was not used at all the races that year. BMW saw their first win in Canadian Grand Prix, where the cool conditions helped the turbocharged engine. The BT50 was used for the rest of the season. The car was still unreliable, and the drivers only made four finishes the rest of the season.\n\nIn , the reliability of the BMW engine was improved. The new Brabham BT52 allowed Nelson Piquet to win the Drivers' Championship. Brabham finished third in the Constructors' Championship. BMW also began supplying its engines to the German ATS team this season. Manfred Winkelhock, the only driver for the team, was unable to score any points.\n\nFor , BMW expanded to three teams, supplying the M12/13 to Arrows. In , BMW was back to two teams. ATS had left Formula One. Piquet won one race, the French Grand Prix. It was the only win for BMW that year.\n\nFor the 1986 season, BMW was back to three teams with the addition of Benetton. Benetton had the most success, scoring 19 points, and winning the Mexican Grand Prix. In , BMW only supplied Brabham with works engines. Arrows and Ligier used the \"Megatron\", a rebadged BMW engine. At the end of the year, Benetton team owner Bernie Ecclestone decided not to compete the following year. This ended the BMW turbo engine. The Arrows team still used the \"Megatrons\" engine for . They finished fifth in the Constructors' Championship, their best finish in the team's 25-year history.\n\nFor , the technical regulations were changed to ban turbocharged engines. During the M12/13 engine's time in F1, the engine had won the 1983 Drivers' Championship and nine Grands Prix. It also took 14 pole positions and set 13 fastest laps.\n\nWilliams had been very successful using Renault engines. They won the , , and Drivers' Championships. They also won the , , , and Constructors' Championships. When Renault left F1 at the end of 1997, Williams needed a new engine. In , the BMW signed a contract to supply the Williams team with engines.\n\nBMW spent 18 months building and testing a normally aspirated, 3.0 litre V10 engine. The E41 engine was ready to race in the 2000 season. The Williams FW22 with the BMW E41 engine was driven by Ralf Schumacher and Jenson Button. Schumacher scored a podium finish in the engine's first race. The team finished the year with two more podium finishes, and third in the Constructors' Championship.\n\nFor , BMW designed a more aggressive P80 engine. The engine had a big power improvement. Schumacher and new team-mate Juan Pablo Montoya scored four race wins. For , the team won only one race with Schumacher at the Malaysian Grand Prix. Montoya took seven pole positions, but was not able to win a single race.\nThe Williams team was more competitive in . Both drivers won on two time. For , Williams produced the FW26 chassis with a radical nose section. This design did not work very well. Williams slipped to fourth in the Constructors' Championship. Montoya's victory in the Brazilian Grand Prix the team's only win (and the team's final win to date). Both Schumacher and Montoya left the team at the end of the season.\n\nBMW bought Swiss team Sauber in June 2005 to form the BMW Sauber F1 Team. The takeover came after BMW's relationship with Williams had deteriorated in the previous months, the partnership ending at the end of the season. The team was based at Sauber's headquarters in Hinwil, Switzerland and BMW's headquarters in Munich, Germany.\n\nThe team scored two podium finishes and came fifth in 2006, its first season in Formula One. This was followed by a second place in 2007 after the McLaren team had been excluded from the championship. Polish driver Robert Kubica took the team's only Grand Prix victory at the 2008 Canadian Grand Prix. Following a poor season, BMW withdrew from Formula One and sold the team back to founder Peter Sauber.\n\nFor the 2006 season, BMW Sauber signed Nick Heidfeld from Williams to be the lead driver, while World Champion Jacques Villeneuve had his existing two-year contract with Sauber honoured. Robert Kubica was signed as the team's third driver. The team continued to use Sauber's facilities, mostly for chassis construction and wind tunnel testing, while BMW's headquarters in Munich were responsible for building the new 2.4 litre P86 V8 engine, revised technical regulations forcing a change from the 3 litre V10 formula. This replaced the Petronas-badged Ferrari engines which the team had used since 1997. The Sauber team's existing major sponsors, Petronas and Credit Suisse, renewed their contracts with BMW. The team also announced a technical partnership with technology company Intel. The team's new livery, which was maintained throughout its tenure in Formula One, consisted of the traditional BMW blue and white with a hint of red.\n\nVilleneuve scored the team's first points with a seventh-place finish at the Malaysian Grand Prix, after Heidfeld retired from fifth with an engine failure late in the race. Over the first two thirds of the season the drivers picked up points with a succession of seventh and eighth-place finishes, plus a fourth-place finish for Heidfeld at the Australian Grand Prix. The team ran a radical \"twin towers\" aero enhancement on the front of the car for the French Grand Prix, which was meant improve the flow of air over the top of the chassis. The parts were promptly banned by the Fédération Internationale de l'Automobile (FIA) as they were adjudged to impede the drivers' vision and thus compromise safety.\n\nHeidfeld scored the team's first podium finish at the Hungarian Grand Prix from tenth on the grid. This race also saw the début of Robert Kubica, who replaced Villeneuve after the latter had crashed heavily at the preceding German Grand Prix. Kubica finished seventh, although he was later disqualified after his car was found to be underweight. The official reason for Villeneuve's absence was that he was recovering from his previous accident, but the team later announced that the driver change was permanent. Kubica scored BMW Sauber's second podium finish of the season at the Italian Grand Prix, after running in third place for most of the race and leading briefly during the first round of pit stops. Heidfeld finished in eighth, but set the team's first fastest lap. The team scored a total of 36 points to finish fifth in the Constructors' Championship, an improvement on Sauber's eighth position with 20 points in .\n\nOn 19 October 2006, BMW announced that Robert Kubica would partner Nick Heidfeld for the 2007 Formula One season with Sebastian Vettel taking the test and reserve driver role. Timo Glock was later signed as the team's second test driver. The team launched its 2007 car, the F1.07, on January 16, 2007.\n\nThe new car showed promising form throughout winter testing, topping the times sheets on occasions. However, team principal Mario Theissen declared some reliability concerns before the season's opening race in Australia. Kubica retired from fourth place with a gearbox problem, but Heidfeld took over the position and held it to the end of the race. In the early races of the season, Heidfeld and Kubica scored a series of points finishes and established BMW Sauber as the third-fastest team, behind Ferrari and McLaren. Theissen also made the point that the performance gap between BMW Sauber and the two top teams was less than the gap between BMW Sauber and the teams behind it.\n\nThe Canadian Grand Prix brought mixed fortunes for the team. While Heidfeld scored BMW Sauber's best result thus far with a second-place finish, Kubica suffered a huge crash that resulted in a long safety car period. The media was initially told Kubica had broken his leg, but it later proved that he had escaped with only a sprained ankle and concussion. Vettel took his place in the United States Grand Prix, finishing in eighth place and therefore becoming the youngest driver to score a Formula One World Championship point. Later in the season, Vettel moved teams to take a race seat at the Toro Rosso team.\n\nKubica returned to racing action at the French Grand Prix and proved his recovery by finishing in fourth position. Over the remainder of the season, he and Heidfeld continued their form to score a total of 101 points, which secured the team second in the Constructors' Championship after McLaren's disqualification. Heidfeld scored another podium finish at the Hungarian Grand Prix and scored 61 points to Kubica's 39, while Vettel's sole appearance produced an additional point.\n\nOn August 21, 2007, BMW confirmed its driver line-up of Heidfeld and Kubica for the season.\nTheir 2008 car, the F1.08 was officially launched in Munich at BMW Welt on January 14, 2008. It made its track debut at Valencia the next day, with Robert Kubica driving. Team principal Mario Theissen set the target of the team's first win.\n\nBMW Sauber started the season well with Kubica narrowly missing out on pole after a mistake in his main qualifying lap in Melbourne. He later retired after being hit by Kazuki Nakajima but Heidfeld finished second. Kubica took second in Malaysia, with Heidfeld in 6th setting the fastest lap of the race. The team's points total of 11 was their largest score up to that time. In Bahrain, Kubica scored his and the team's first ever pole position, beating Felipe Massa by just under three hundredths of a second. The team went on to finish 3rd and 4th in the race, equalling their highest round points total and promoting them to first place in the constructors' championship for the first time.\n\nThe team also attained a second-place finish in the Monaco Grand Prix with Robert Kubica, beating both Ferraris and only trailing the McLaren of Lewis Hamilton by three seconds.\n\nBMW Sauber's first race victory came in the 2008 Canadian Grand Prix, the team achieving a one-two finish with Robert Kubica's first race win and Nick Heidfeld taking second place. The victory came after Lewis Hamilton collided with Kimi Räikkönen in the pitlane, ending the race for both drivers. Kubica was on a different refueling strategy from Heidfeld, who also briefly led the race before securing the one-two finish for BMW Sauber in comfortable fashion.\n\nAfter the team's breakthrough win, development was switched to the 2009 season where new regulations come into play. This greatly annoyed Kubica, (who was leading the championship after the Canadian Grand Prix), as he felt they could have had a realistic chance of taking at least one title. The lack of development was reflected with a drop of form throughout the second half of the season, causing BMW to be outpaced by Renault, Toyota and even Toro Rosso (who started the season as one of the slowest teams) by the end of the season. Despite this, Kubica remained with an outside chance of taking the drivers championship until the Chinese Grand Prix, the 17th round out of 18.\n\nIn October the team confirmed that they would stick with Robert Kubica and Nick Heidfeld as their drivers for the Season.\n\nAlthough BMW Sauber targeted the season as the year they would challenge for the title, their start to the season was a disappointment. Kubica was running in 3rd place in the opening round when he collided with Vettel while battling for 2nd place and was forced to retire. Heidfeld then secured the team's first podium of the year in Malaysia, but after 6 races BMW Sauber had collected a mere 6 points, and occupied 8th place in the Constructors' Championship out of 10 teams. A raft of upgrades were set for Turkey, including an improved regenerative braking system (KERS) and a double deck diffuser. While the new diffuser was implemented, the KERS could not be made to fit the new car and both drivers raced without the device. After the qualifying session for the British Grand Prix Mario Theissen announced that the team had decided to halt further development KERS; of which BMW had been one of the strongest proponents, and focus instead on improving the car's aerodynamics. This left Ferrari and McLaren as the only remaining users of the KERS system. In the European Grand Prix at Valencia Robert Kubica scored the team's first points since the race in Turkey.\n\nFollowing a meeting of the BMW board on July 28, the company held at press conference the following morning in which it confirmed the team's withdrawal from Formula One at the end of 2009. Chairman Dr Norbert Reithofer described the decision as a strategic one. The Formula One Teams Association released a statement in response pledging its support to help the team remain in F1.\n\nOn 15 September 2009 it was announced that BMW Sauber had secured a buyer, Qadbak Investments Limited which said to represent European and Middle Eastern interests. However Lotus had been given the 13th and final slot in the 2010 Championship. The team were awarded what was termed a 14th entry, which hinges either on another team dropping out or all the other teams agreeing to allow 28 cars to enter the 2010 Championship.\n\nOn November 22, Swiss newspaper SonntagsZeitung revealed that Qadbak's attempt to purchase the team had failed as it did not have the necessary funds. Qadbak turned out to be a shell company with no assets and no investors behind it. On November 27, 2009 it was announced that Peter Sauber would repurchase the team conditional upon the team receiving a FIA entry for the 2010 season. The FIA subsequently granted Sauber an entry on December 3. The team used Ferrari engines in .\n\nThe team retained the BMW Sauber name for the season, despite using Ferrari engines.\n\n\n\n", "id": "304800", "title": "BMW in Formula One"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304809", "text": "List of Interstate Highways\n\nPrimary Interstate Highways are the major interstate highways of the United States and have a one or two-digit route number. \"Even\" (2, 4, 6, 8, or 0) route numbers are given to east/west routes, with the smaller numbered routes in the south (I-10) and bigger numbered routes in the north (I-90). Similarly, \"odd\" (1, 3, 5, 7, or 9) route numbers are given to north/south routes, with the smaller numbered routes in the west (I-5) and the bigger numbered routes in the east (I-95).\n\nThere are five sets of numbers that are used more than once throughout the system; the highways whose numbers are used more than once are separated by big distances to avoid confusion. Below, these are made separate from each other by West and East.\n\nThree-digit Interstates are spur or loop Interstates that usually are in big cities and areas outside of cities. The last two digits of a three-digit Interstate are always the number of the route it is related to. If the first digit is \"odd\" (1, 3, 5, 7, or 9), the Interstate is usually a spur route while if the first digit is \"even\" (2, 4, 6, 8, or 0), the Interstate is usually a loop route. \nA total of 67 primary Interstates are in the table below, with 43 of them having three-digit routes. The lengths in the table are as of December 31, 2013.\n\nRoutes ending in 0 or 5 are marked in green.\n\nInterstate Highways are not only in the 48 states of the United States that border, but there are also Interstates in Hawaii, Alaska, and Puerto Rico.\n\nThe Interstate Highways in the island of Oahu, Hawaii are signed with the normal Interstate shield, with the letter \"H-\" added before the number. They are fully controlled-access routes built to the same standards as the Interstate routes in the main part of the United States.\n\nThe Federal Highway Administration gives money to four routes in Alaska and three routes in Puerto Rico under the same program as the rest of the Interstate Highway System. However, these routes do not have to meet the same standards as the Interstate routes in the main part of the United States.\n\nAlaska's Interstates do not have signs to mark them, although they all have state highway numbers that are not the same as the Interstate numbers.\n\n\nLike Alaska, Puerto Rico signs its Interstates as territorial routes, and the numbers are not the same as their official Interstate designations. Many of the territory's routes are freeway-standard toll roads.\n\n\n\n", "id": "304809", "title": "List of Interstate Highways"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304818", "text": "Andrew Gaze\n\nAndrew Barry Casson Gaze (born 24 July 1965) is a famous Australian basketball player. He has been very successful in his career.\n\nAndrew is the son of Lindsay Gaze, who coached and played basketball himself. Andrew started playing in the NBL when he was 18 years old. He won the 'rookie of the year' prize in 1984. He scored the most points out of everyone in a season 14 times. This was because he was very good at shooting, including 'three-point' shots. Gaze played with Lanard Copeland at the Melbourne Tigers for most of his career. He often through 'alley oop' passes to Copeland. Gaze helped the Tigers reach the finals almost every year. He also helped them win two championships.\n\nGaze played in the Olympic Games for Australia in 1984, 1988, 1992, 1996 and 2000. In 2000 he became only the third basketball player to play in 5 Olympic Games. He led the team to 4th place at the 1988, 1996 and 2000 Olympics.) He was chosen to be the flag-bearer for the Australian team at the opening ceremony at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. He has scored more points at the Olympics than any other player. He is the second-highest scorer of all-time in World Championship play.\n\nIn 1988–99, Gaze played for a season college basketball at Seton Hall. His team reached the 1989 NCAA finals. They lost in overtime to Michigan. He tried out with the NBA's Seattle SuperSonics, but did not make the team. In 1993–94 he played seven games for the Washington Bullets. He also played with the San Antonio Spurs in 1998, but became hurt at the end of the season. The Spurs won the title and Gaze was given a championship ring.\n\nAfter the Sydney Olympics, Gaze retired from playing overseas. He retired from the NBL on May 12th 2005. He had played for more than 20 years. Soon after, he wrote his autobiography, \"A Kid, a Ball, a Dream\", with help from Grantley Bernard.\n\nNowadays, Gaze often takes part in TV advertisements. He also commentates for channel 7, SEN 1116 and (occasionally) Fox Sports. Gaze now coaches for the Melbourne Tigers' junior basketball club. Gaze took part in series five of \"Dancing with the Stars\" He is now also working as a presenter on Channel Seven's \"Guide to the Good Life\".\n\n\n", "id": "304818", "title": "Andrew Gaze"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304875", "text": "Honus Wagner\n\nJohannes Peter \"Honus\" Wagner (; February 24, 1874 – December 6, 1955 ) was an American Major League Baseball shortstop. He was nicknamed \"The Flying Dutchman\" because he was German and very fast. He played in the National League from 1897 to 1917. He played for the Louisville Colonels for two years, and then for the Pittsburgh Pirates for 17 years. Wagner won eight batting titles, the most in National League history. He held the league record for slugging percentage six times, and the record for stolen bases five times.\n\nHe was inducted (added to) the Baseball Hall of Fame in 1936. He was one of the first five members of the hall of fame. He received the second-highest vote total to be added. Ty Cobb is the only person to get more votes. Babe Ruth tied with Wagner for second-highest.\n\nMost historians think that Ty Cobb is the greatest player of the dead-ball era. But some think that Wagner was a better all-around player. Most baseball historians think that Wagner was the greatest shortstop ever. Cobb said that Wagner was \"maybe the greatest star ever to take the diamond.\"\n\nJohannes Wagner was born on February 24, 1874 in the Chartiers neighborhood of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (Chartiers is now part of Carnegie, Pennsylvania.) His parents were Peter and Katheryn Wagner. His father was a coal miner and his mother was a housewife. Both of his parents were German immigrants.\n\nWagner was one of five children. His mother called him Hans as a child. This name evolved (change into over time) into Honus. When he was 12, Wagner dropped out of school to work in the coal mines with his father. In their free time, Honus and his brothers played sandlot baseball. They became so good that three of Honus's brothers also became professional baseball players.\n\nHonus's older brother, Albert \"Butts\" Wagner, was a professional baseball player. In 1895, he was playing for the Inter-State League. He got Honus a tryout with the league. \n\nIn 1894, Honus married Bessie Baine Smith. They had three daughters: Elva Katrina (b. 1918), Betty Baine (b. 1919), and Virginia Mae (b. 1922).\n\nHonus started playing for the Inter-State League in 1895. He played for five different teams in his first year. The towns he played for were Steubenville, Akron, Mansfield, Adrian, and Warren.\n\nEd Barrow, a manager from the Atlantic League, saw Honus play. He convinced Honus to come play for the Paterson Silk Weavers of Paterson, New Jersey. In 1896, Wagner had a batting average of .313. In 1897, Wagner played 74 games and hit .375.\n", "id": "304875", "title": "Honus Wagner"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304877", "text": "Klaipėda\n\nKlaipėda is a city in Lithuania. It is where the Nemunas River flows into the Baltic Sea. Klaipėda is the third largest city in Lithuania and the capital of Klaipėda County. The German name of the city is Memel.Until 1920, this city was the northernmost city of the German Empire. \n\nThe city's history is complicated.The Port of Klaipėda is important in the area. It is a usually ice-free port on the Baltic Sea. It has been controlled by the Teutonic Knights, the Duchy of Prussia, the Kingdom of Prussia, the German Empire, the Entente States, Lithuania, and the Third Reich. The city became part of Lithuania while it was a Soviet Socialist Republic. Klaipėda remained part of Lithuania after it again became independent state.\n\nThe population shrank from 207,100 in 1992 to 177,823 in 2011. Popular seaside resorts found close to Klaipėda are Nida to the south on the Curonian Spit, and Palanga to the north.\n", "id": "304877", "title": "Klaipėda"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304878", "text": "JIT\n\nJIT, Just-In-Time compilation is a way to translate bytecode instructions to instructions the processor understands. Bytecode is a set of computer instructions for a processor that only exists on paper. \n\nThe alternative to a JIT is an interpreter that looks at each bytecode instruction individually and then decides what to with it. When you run over the same part of the program again, an interpreter has to make the decisions again. While a JIT makes the decisions on how to handle the bytecode once, and then stores it as native processor instructions (this takes memory). Properly deciding how to translate bytecode take some time, so you have some minor slowdown in startup speed. A proper modern JIT first runs a regular interpreter, and then does the JIT step once it knows something is used frequently.\n\n", "id": "304878", "title": "JIT"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304879", "text": "Hınıs\n\nHınıs is a town in Erzurum district in east of Turkey. Over 20,000 people live there, mainly Kurdish.\n", "id": "304879", "title": "Hınıs"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304880", "text": "Avro 683 Lancaster\n\nAvro 683 Lancaster was developed out of Avro 679 Manchester. It was the most used RAF bomber in the Second World War. The changes made on Avro 679, like four Rolls-Royce Merlin X instead of two powerplants and longer wings, have led to the new name Avro 683. Royal Air Force ordered 1070 pieces of this airplane. After the success on the war places, Avro sold the production licence to other companies. One of those was Packard, who bought the licence for powerplant production and improved them. The variant with the most produced pieces was Avro 683 B I, a plane which was the base of RAF Bomber Command at that time. \n\n", "id": "304880", "title": "Avro 683 Lancaster"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304909", "text": "Indre (department)\n\nIndre is a department in the centre of France in the Centre-Val de Loire region. It is named after the Indre river, the most important river in the department.\n\nIts prefecture is Châteauroux.\n\nThe department is one of the 83 French departments made during the French revolution, on 4 March 1790. The department was created from part of the former province of Berry.\n\nThe new department had six districts: Issoudun, Châteauroux, Argenton, Le Blanc, La Châtre and Marennes. The capital (now prefecture) was Châteauroux.\n\nIn 1800, with the creation of the \"arrondissements\" in France, the six districts were changed into four \"arrondissements\": Saintes, Châteauroux, Le Blanc, La Châtre and Issoudun.\n\nOn 10 September 1926, the \"arrondissement\" of Issoudun was eliminated but in 1942 it was made again an \"arrondissement\".\n\nIndre is part of the Centre-Val de Loire region. It has an area of .\n\nThe highest point of the department is \"Terrior Randoin\" (), in the \"commune\" of Pouligny-Notre-Dame, and that is above sea level. that is high.\n\nThe department is bordered by the departments: Loir-et-Cher, Cher, Creuse, Vienne, Haute-Vienne and Indre-et-Loire.\n\nThe main rivers are:\n\nThe department is managed by the \"General Council of the Indre\" in Châteauroux. Indre is part of the region of Centre-Val de Loire.\n\nThere are 4 \"arrondissements\" (districts), 13 \"cantons\" and 243 \"communes\" (municipalities) in Indre.\n\nThe following is a list of the 13 cantons of the Indre department, following the French canton reorganisation which came into effect in March 2015:\n\nThe inhabitants of Indre are known, in French, as \"Indriens\" (women: \"Indriennes\").\n\nIndre has a population, in 2013, of 228,091, for a population density of inhabitants/km. The \"arrondissement\" of Châteauroux, with 127,499 inhabitants, is by far the largest. The other three, Issoudun, La Châtre and Le Blanc, have respectively 35,252, 33,172 and 32,168 inhabitants.\n\nThe city with more people living in it is Châteauroux (45,209).\n\nThe main cities in the department are:\n\n\n", "id": "304909", "title": "Indre (department)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304942", "text": "Blackburn B-103\n\nBlackburn B-103 Buccaneer was made for the Royal Navy, the naval part of the United Kingdom´s armed forces. It was also by the Royal Air Force starting in 1968. That was the first airplane with some technical innovations like a system for increased buoyancy, a split rudder (which widens to be an air brake), and rotating magazine for nuclear or conventional weapons. After tests, this plane was selected and put in use by Royal Navy in 1962. This aircraft was retired in 1994. It was used in the 1991 Gulf War. \n", "id": "304942", "title": "Blackburn B-103"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304948", "text": "Southern Railway\n\nSouthern Railway is a train operating company in the south of England. They operate routes around the southeast such as London, Kent, West Sussex, East Sussex and more. It is a division of Govia.\n", "id": "304948", "title": "Southern Railway"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304951", "text": "Annie Lennox\n\nAnnie Lennox is an Academy Award-winning Scottish pop-rock singer. She was born December 25, 1954 in Aberdeen. She is best known for being the lead singer of the Eurythmics. Lennox has also released five albums on her own.\n", "id": "304951", "title": "Annie Lennox"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304952", "text": "Michael Sheard\n\nMichael Sheard (born 18 June 1940 Aberdeen) is a Scottish actor. He as been in a large number of movies and television programmes.\n", "id": "304952", "title": "Michael Sheard"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304957", "text": "John Steell\n\nSir John Steell (1804 - 1891) was a Scottish sculptor born in Aberdeen, but moved to Edinburgh at an early age. A number of the public statues there are by him including the one of the Duke of Wellington outside Register House and that of Sir Walter Scott at the Scott Monument.\n", "id": "304957", "title": "John Steell"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304958", "text": "Alexander Auldjo\n\nAlexander Auldjo (October 21, 1758 – May 21, 1821) was a businessman and political figure in Lower Canada.\n\nAuldjo was born in Aberdeen, Scotland in 1758. He came to Montreal around 1778. He became a fur trader. Later he exported wheat and imported goods from England. In 1796, he was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Lower Canada for Montreal West. He also became a Justice of the Peace. Auldjo was promoted to Lieutenant Colonel during the War of 1812. In 1817, he became a shareholder in the Bank of Montreal. His brother George was Lord Provost of Aberdeen.\n", "id": "304958", "title": "Alexander Auldjo"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304964", "text": "Neuromancer\n\nNeuromancer is a science fiction novel by William Gibson. It was published in 1984. It is an important book that started the cyberpunk genre. It was Gibson's first novel and the beginning of the Sprawl trilogy. \"Neuromancer\" was the first novel to win all three of the important awards in science fiction — the Nebula Award, the Philip K. Dick Award, and the Hugo Award.\n\nTerry Carr asked Gibson to write the book for the third series of Ace Science Fiction Specials. This was a series for authors' first novels. \n\n", "id": "304964", "title": "Neuromancer"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304966", "text": "The Giver\n\nThe Giver is a novel by Lois Lowry. It is science fiction. Bantam Books published the book in 1993. It won the Newbery Medal for excellence in American literature for children in 1994. \"The Giver\" has sold more than 5 million copies.\n\nMany people did not think that it was right for \"The Giver\" to win the Newbery Medal. This was because they thought that the book had events and ideas in it that were not good for children. Therefore, the book has also been challenged and banned.\n\n\"The Giver\" is the first book in a quartet. \"Gathering Blue,\" \"Messenger,\" and \"Son\" are the books in the quartet. They are also set in the same time. It is about a boy who discovers that the utopian society he thought was his world turns out to be dystopian. \n", "id": "304966", "title": "The Giver"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304970", "text": "Alex Rafael da Silva Antônio\n\nAlex Rafael da Silva Antônio (born 1 January 1988 in São Paulo, Brazil) is a Brazilian footballer. He playes for F.C. Red Bull Salzburg in the Austrian Bundesliga as striker.\n\nHe started playing football in the youth teams of Corinthians São Paulo. In 2007 he went on to the local rival Palmeiras. After the foundation of Red Bull Brasil he played with this team and was promoted two times till they played in the Série A2, the second league in the province of São Paulo. In 2010 he played in the final of the Copa Paulista.\n\nIn 2011 he and his team mate Jefferson were invited to practice with FC Red Bull Salzburg in Austria. He played in test matches versus Bayer 04 Leverkusen and Olympic Lyonnaise. He could convince the coaches and so he signed with FC Red Bull Salzburg in Austrias Bundesliga.\n\n", "id": "304970", "title": "Alex Rafael da Silva Antônio"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304971", "text": "Corroboree frog\n\nThere are two species of corroboree frog:\n", "id": "304971", "title": "Corroboree frog"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304973", "text": "Northern corroboree frog\n\nThere are two species of corroboree frog, the northern corroboree frog, \"Pseudophryne pengilleyi\" and the southern corroboree frog, \"Pseudophryne corroboree\". \n\nThe two frogs were believed to be the same, but in 1996 they were recognised as two different species. The northern corroboree frog is a very small black frog with either light green or yellow stripes. Unlike the southern species, these stripes are sometimes broken.\n\nIt lives in the subalpine areas of south eastern Australia, an area of about including the Kosciusko National Park, Namadgi National Park, the Brindabella Mountains and the Fiery Ranges. \n\nThe northern corroboree frog has not suffered as badly as the southern as it has a much larger habitat. It lives above above sea level and with higher population numbers at the lower level. It has recently been downgraded from critical to an endangered species by the International Union for the Conservation of Nature (IUCN).\n", "id": "304973", "title": "Northern corroboree frog"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304988", "text": "Galaxy Science Fiction\n\nGalaxy Science Fiction was an American science fiction magazine. It was published from 1950 to 1980.\n\nH. L. Gold was the first editor. He made \"Galaxy\" the leading science fiction magazine of its time. He published stories about social issues, not just technology. Gold published many well-known and important stories, including: Robert A. Heinlein's \"The Puppet Masters\" and Alfred Bester's \"The Demolished Man\". He also published Ray Bradbury's \"The Fireman\", which later became the novel \"Fahrenheit 451\".\n\nBy the late 1950s, Frederik Pohl was helping Gold with the magazine. When Gold became ill, Pohl became editor. He started officially at the end of 1961, but had been doing most of the editing for a while. \"Galaxy\" continued to be successful. Pohl often published fiction by important writers such as Cordwainer Smith, Jack Vance, Harlan Ellison, and Robert Silverberg. However, Pohl never won the annual Hugo Award for his work at \"Galaxy\". He did win three Hugos for another magazine, \"If\". In 1969, \"Galaxy\" was sold to Universal Publishing and Distribution Corporation (UPD) and Pohl quit. Later editors included Ejler Jakobsson and James Baen.\n", "id": "304988", "title": "Galaxy Science Fiction"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=304997", "text": "Dragan Klaric\n\nDragan Klaric, born 1965, is a Swedish blogger and former Sweden Democrats (SD) politician of Croatian origin. He was the head of “SD-television”, the Sweden Democrats’ own TV station, and a full-time party employee. He left the party in temper, motivating his resignation by writing, “the reason [for my resignation] is that I was ‘assfucked’ a mere month before the election as I was requested to resign from my chair at SD-television. Two years and eight months of faithful and loyal service to the party is suddenly forgotten”.\n\nKlaric has been found guilty of libel three times, in tort cases, and has been forced to pay damages in every case. In 2009, the Helsingborg district court found him guilty of libel against Tommy Funebo, and once more in 2010, against Fredrik Jönsson. However, he was not found guilty of the comments somebody wrote about Jönsson on Klaric's blog, which Klaric approved. The court of appeal of Skåne and Blekinge later overruled the district court, finding him guilty.\n\nKlaric’s blog was investigated by the Swedish anti-racist newspaper Expo during its review of the atmosphere of the Sweden Democrats community on the Internet. On May 20, 2010, press ombudsman Yrsa Stenius stated that Klaric “from a press-ethical point of view was to be considered a public person”.\n\nOn January 7, 2011, Swedish newspaper Helsingborgs Dagblad reported that the party and Dragan Klaric will end their cooperation in a legal dispute since they do not agree on Klaric’s time as chair of SD-television. According to SD, the party holds the copyright to all of the material from SD-television, and, in addition, SD demands that Klaric returns all equipment he has taken from the station. Klaric refuses to comply, arguing that SD-television was his own private project, and not a part of his employment, and, thus, that he alone owns the physical as well as intellectual property of the station. The events surrounding his resignation were covered by Expo.\n\nAfter leaving the party, Klaric has intensively criticized the SD leadership on his blog.\n\n", "id": "304997", "title": "Dragan Klaric"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305010", "text": "George Medal\n\nThe George Medal (GM) is the second highest civil award of the United Kingdom and Commonwealth. It ranks below the George Cross. It is only awarded for non-combat acts of bravery. \n\nThe GM was created on 24 September 1940 by King George VI. At this time, during the height of The Blitz, there was a desire to reward acts of civilian courage. It was decided that the George Cross and the GM would recognise civilian bravery in the face of enemy action and brave deeds more widely.\n\nAnnouncing the new award, the King said: \n\nThe Warrant for the GM was published in the \"London Gazette\" on 31 January 1941. The medal is granted in recognition of \"acts of great bravery\". The GM was originally not issued posthumously, but the warrant was amended in 1977 to allow posthumous awards, several of which have been subsequently made.\n\nThe medal is primarily a civilian award, but it may be awarded to military personnel for gallant conduct that is not in the face of the enemy. As the Warrant states:\n\nBars are awarded to the GM in recognition of the performance of further acts of bravery meriting the award. In undress uniform or on occasions when the medal ribbon alone is worn, a silver rosette is worn on the ribbon to indicate each bar. Recipients are entitled to the postnominal letters GM.\n\nThe details of all awards to British and Commonwealth recipients are published in the \"London Gazette\".\n\n", "id": "305010", "title": "George Medal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305011", "text": "George Cross\n\nThe George Cross (GC) is the highest civil decoration of the United Kingdom, and many other countries of the Commonwealth of Nations. The GC is the civilian counterpart of the Victoria Cross (VC). It is the highest gallantry award for civilians. Also, it may be awarded to military personnel in actions not in the face of the enemy or for which purely military honours would not normally be granted.\n\nThe list of living s of the George Cross is small.\n\n", "id": "305011", "title": "George Cross"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305015", "text": "Land Rover\n\nLand Rover is a brand of the British Jaguar Land Rover company. The company makes cars (SUV's). Since 2008 they have been owned by a Indian company called Tata Motors. Land Rover supplies the British Army with vehicles. The original Land Rover car dates back to 1948, and was designed by Maurice Wilks.\n\nAs of 2014, Land Rover sells six ranges of vehicle: the Defender, Freelander 2/LR2, Discovery 4/LR4, Range Rover Evoque, Range Rover Sport and Range Rover.\n", "id": "305015", "title": "Land Rover"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305017", "text": "Croix de Guerre\n\nThe Croix de guerre (English translation: \"Cross of War\") is a military medal of both France and Belgium.\n\nIt was first created in 1915 in both countries. It consists of a square-cross medal on two crossed swords, hanging from a ribbon with various degree pins. The decoration was awarded during World War I, again in World War II, and in other conflicts. The Croix de guerre was also often awarded to foreign military forces allied to France and Belgium.\n\nThe Croix de guerre may be given to a unit or to individuals who for acts of heroism involving combat with enemy forces. The medal is also awarded to those who have been \"mentioned in despatches\". This means a heroic deed was performed meriting a citation from an individual's headquarters unit. The unit award of the Croix de guerre was issued to military commanders who performed heroic deeds in combat and were subsequently recognized by headquarters.\n", "id": "305017", "title": "Croix de Guerre"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305021", "text": "Scallop\n\nA scallop is a marine bivalve mollusc of the family Pectinidae. Scallops live in all the world's oceans. \n\nThis is one of the largest families of living bivalves. There are over 300 living species of scallop. Their main adaptation is the ability to swim by clapping their valves together. In this way they escape from most of their predators.\n\nThey have a good reputation as a food source. As bivalves they have two shells. The lower shell is usually white (about 95%). It can also be orange (4%) or Lemon Yellow (1%).\n\nThe name \"scallop\" comes from the Old French \"escalope\", which means \"shell\". Their shells can be up to 15 centimetres (6 inches) across.\n\n1. Their ability to swim. However, a few species attach to rocks as adults by a filament. Most species lie on sandy beds, and swim off when touched by a starfish or other predator.\n\n2. They have eyes round the edges of their mantle. Their eyes cannot see shapes, but they can detect changing patterns of light and motion.\n\n3. Semi-circular ridged shape to shells. The shells are similar, and fit closely together.\n\n4. At some stage in their lives, all scallops all have a ridge of tiny teeth near the notch where the byssus comes out in other bivalves. This is called the \"ctenolium\". Its importance is that only scallops have it, and it can be seen in fossils. So that tells palaeontologists when they have a fossil scallop.\nScallops have a central adductor muscle. This is the same as true oysters (family Ostreidae). The inside of their shell has a scar in the middle. This shows where this muscle attaches to the shell. The adductor muscle of scallops is larger and more developed than the adductor muscle of oysters. This is because they swim. \n\nMost scallops are filter feeders. They eat plankton. The plankton sometimes has scallop larvae in it. Siphons bring water over a filtering structure. Mucus then traps the food. Next, the cilia on the structure moves the food to the mouth. Then, the scallop digests the food in the stomach and digestive gland. Waste goes through the intestine and exits through the anus.\n\nSome scallops, such as the Atlantic bay scallop \"Argopecten irradians\" do not live for a long time. Others can live 20 years or more.\nOne can estimate their age from the annuli, the concentric rings on their shells.\n\nThe scallop family is unusual because of the variety in arrangements for sexual reproduction. In some species, a scallop has only one sex. They are either male or female. Other species are hermaphrodites so a single scallop has both male and female reproductive organs at the same time. A few scallops are male when they are young and they become female when they grow older.\n\nRed roe comes from female scallops. White roe comes from males. Scallops release Spermatozoa and ova freely into the water during the mating season. Fertilized ova sink to the bottom. The immature scallop hatches after a few weeks. The larvae drift in the plankton until they go to the bottom again to grow. They may attach by means of byssal threads.\n\nThere are many Pectinidae species, living and fossil. True Pectinidae (ones with a \"ctenolium\") first appeared in the Upper or Middle Triassic over 200 million years ago (mya), and perhaps as early as 240 mya. \n\nThe Pectinidae family had a large number of species in the Mesozoic era, but they almost disappeared at the end of the Cretaceous period. The survivors evolved rapidly during the Tertiary period. There are nearly 7,000 species and subspecies for the fossil and recent Pectinidae. \n\nThe evolution of bivalves that swim is a consequence of the so-called \"Mesozoic marine revolution\". In the Mesozoic era sea-floor predators evolved various new forms which fed on the abundant shellfish (brachiopods and bivalves). These predators are still abundant today: they are mostly the starfish, the gastropods, and the crabs. \n\nEach predator has its own methods. Crabs break the shells by force. Some gastropods make holes in the shell and put in a paralysing or relaxing substance; others work on small cracks in the edge of the shell. Once they get their proboscis in, they eat the shellfish.\n\nStarfish are the most common predators. The shells of brachiopods and bivalves are held together by strong muscles. What the starfish does is clamp hold of them on either side with its tube feet, and apply a steady pull. The starfish, with its muscles and hydraulic system, can pull for much longer than any bivalve muscle can withstand. Apparently, ten minutes are usually enough to open the shell a bit. Then the starfish slips its stomach inside the shell. The stomach can get through a slot as narrow as 0.1mm. The starfish then dissolves the mollusc where it lives, absorbing the nutrients.\n\nConsequently, there was a great reproductive advantage for any prey which had even the slightest defence to these predators. Many shellfish developed extra-tough shells. Some burrowed into the sand. Scallops must had had some elementary movement, which developed rapidly under selection. They became extremely common in the Mesozoic. There are some other methods used by a few scallops. \"Chlamys hastata\" often carry sponges on their shell. It is a kind of mutualism. The sponge makes it difficult for starfish to get their tube feet on, and camouflages \"Chlamys hastata\" from predators. \n\nWhen scallops move off the sand they are open to new predators such as rays, which patrol just above the ocean floor. They may also be picked up by seabirds which open shells by dropping them on rock. Evidently the main advantage lies in getting away from the starfish, which are very numerous on inshore and continental shelf habitats.\n\nStudies have shown the Pectinidae family is monophyletic, developing from a single common ancestor. The direct ancestors of Pectinidae were scallop-like bivalves of the family Entoliidae.\n\nThe largest wild scallop fishery is for the Atlantic sea scallop (\"Placopecten magellanicus\") off northeastern United States and eastern Canada. Most of the rest of the world's production of scallops is from Japan (wild, enhanced, and aquaculture), and China (mostly cultured Atlantic bay scallops). In 2005, China accounted for 80% of the global scallop and pecten catch, according to a Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) study.\n\nScallops are popular in both Eastern and Western cooking. They have two types of meat in one shell. The adductor muscle is white and meaty. The roe, called \"coral\", is red, orange or white and soft.\n\nIn Western cuisine, scallops are often sautéed in butter, or breaded and deep fried. The byssus (also called the beard) is often tough. It is usually discarded or used later on for stock. Sometimes, markets sell scallops already prepared in the shell, with only the adductor muscle. Outside the U.S. the scallop is often sold whole, and people eat the adductor muscle and roe.\n\nIn Japanese cuisine, scallops may be served in soup or prepared as sashimi or sushi. In a sushi bar, \"hotategai\" (帆立貝, 海扇) is the traditional scallop on rice. \"Kaibashira\" (貝柱) might be scallop, but it can also be the adductor muscle of any kind of shellfish, such as mussels, oysters, or clams.\nIn Cantonese Chinese cuisine dried scallop is called conpoy (乾瑤柱, 乾貝, 干貝).\n\nThe scallop shell is the traditional emblem of James, son of Zebedee. It is popular with pilgrims on the Way of St James to the apostle's shrine at Santiago de Compostela in Spain. \n\nThroughout antiquity, scallops and other hinged shells have symbolized the feminine principle. Many paintings of Venus, the Roman goddess of love and fertility, included a scallop shell in the painting to identify her. This is clear in Botticelli's classically inspired \"The Birth of Venus\"\n\nHeraldry included the scallop shell symbol as a badge for people who had made the pilgrimage to Compostela. Later it became a symbol of pilgrimage in general. Winston Churchill's family coat of arms includes scallops. However, symbols in heraldry do not always have the same meaning. Sometimes no family member has been on a pilgrimage but there are still scallops on the coat of arms.\n\nOver 45 communes of France have one or more scallop shells on their coat of arms.\n\nThe U.S. state of New York has had the Atlantic bay scallop as its state shell since 1988. In design, \"scalloped edges\" or \"ridges\" means a wavy pattern which reminds people of the edge of a scallop's shell. Shell petroleum company has had a logo with a scallop shell on it since 1904.\n\n\n", "id": "305021", "title": "Scallop"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305024", "text": "QWOP\n\nQWOP is a Flash game created by Bennett Foddy and released on the Internet in 2008 to his website called \"Foddy.net\". Players play as an athlete named \"Qwop\", who is participating in a 100-meter sprint event at the Olympic Games. Using only the Q, W, O and P keys, players must control the movement of the legs to make the character move forward. When the player has successfully reached 50 meters they must jump a hurdle, and at 100 meters the player is encouraged to perform a long jump, although simply passing the finish line is sufficient to complete the game. \n\nThe game has been criticized for being too hard to get good at. In early December 2010, the game had a viral popularity outbreak after video blogger Ray William Johnson reviewed a YouTube video that annotates the game, becoming the subject of an Internet meme. Despite this, the game helped Foddy’s site reach 30 million views.<ref name = \"http://www.wired.co.uk/magazine/archive/2011/09/start/no-pain-no-gain\"></ref> After the success of the game, Foddy created another flash game called \"GIRP\", which was released on his site in 2011.<ref name = \"http://www.wired.co.uk/magazine/archive/2011/09/start/no-pain-no-gain\"></ref>\n\n", "id": "305024", "title": "QWOP"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305025", "text": "Aga Khan IV\n\nHis Highness Karīm al-Ḥussayni Shah, Aga Khan IV KBE (born 13 December 1936) is the 49th and current Imam of the Shia Ismaili Muslims. \n\nHe has held this position under the title of Aga Khan since 11 July 1957, when, at the age of 20, he succeeded his grandfather, Sir Sultan Mahomed Shah Aga Khan. He is responsible for the interpretation of the faith for his followers and helps to improve the quality of their lives and communities.\n\nUnlike his grandfather, the present Aga Khan's higher education was in the United States at Harvard University. His children have also been educated in the U.S.\n\nSince he became imam, the Aga Khan has followed the political and economic changes which have affected his followers. These events included the independence of African countries from colonial rule, the expulsion of Asians from Uganda, the independence of Central Asian countries such as Tajikistan from the former Soviet Union and the continuous turmoil in Afghanistan and Pakistan.\n\nThe Aga Khan is interested in the elimination of global poverty; the advancement of women; the promotion of Islamic culture, art, and architecture; and promoting pluralistic values in society. He is the founder and chairman of the Aga Khan Development Network, one of the largest private development networks in the world. This works for the environment, health, education, architecture, culture, microfinance, rural development, and disaster reduction. Goals include promotion of private-sector enterprise and the revitalisation of historic cities.\n\nDuring his visit to India in 1983, the Aga Khan said,\nThe Aga Khan has been married twice, and has four children. His main residence is a vast walled compound and chateau, the Aiglemont estate near Chantilly, France. His Highness has many awards. Especially notable are the Nishan-e-Pakistan, Pakistan's highest civil award (1983), and the Knight Grand Cross of the Order of Merit of the Italian Republic. The Aga Khan is the first Muslim to receive this honour (1977).\n", "id": "305025", "title": "Aga Khan IV"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305028", "text": "Jesse Jackson\n\nJesse Louis Jackson, Sr. (born October 8, 1941) is an American church minister, activist and politician. Jackson was born Jesse Louis Burns, in Greenville, South Carolina. His mother, Helen Burns, was 16 years old at the time he was born. She never married his father, Noah Louis Robinson. When Jackson was two, his mother married Charles Jackson. Jesse was raised by his grandmother Matilda until he was 13. In 1957, he returned home when his step-father adopted him.\n\nAfter he graduated from high school, Jackson had an offer to play professional baseball from the Chicago White Sox. He also received a scholarship to play college football at the University of Illinois, which he accepted. He later transferred to North Carolina A&T. He was one of Martin Luther King Jr.'s main organizers in Chicago for the Southern Christian Leadership Conferences. After King was shot, Jackson formed several civil rights organizations of his own. Two of these were Operation PUSH and the Rainbow Coalition. Jackson was also active in civil rights movements outside the United States. He also served as a Baptist minister.\nJackson ran for President in 1984 and 1988, coming in second in the 1988 Democratic party. Both times, he ran on a very liberal platform that wanted people of all races to co-operate, as well as more emphasis on education, urban issues and infrastructure. He wanted to be chosen as the Democrat's Vice-Presidential nominee, but Lloyd Bentsen was chosen instead. From 1991 to 1997 he was a senator from the District of Columbia, even though the District of Columbia is not a state. People thought Jackson might run against Bill Clinton in the 1996 primaries, but he did not. He is known for saying many things that are controversial. Some things he said were offensive to Jews. He also said that Barack Obama was not black enough.\n\nJackson's eldest son, Jesse Jackson, Jr., is a former congressman from Illinois.\n", "id": "305028", "title": "Jesse Jackson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305037", "text": "Structured program theorem\n\nThe structured program theorem is a theory in programming and computer science. A computer program can be split into pieces of code that do a certain task. According to the structured program theory, these smaller tasks can be combined in only three ways to get any larger task done.\n\nA program gets a large task done by splitting it into many smaller tasks that the computer can do easily. These smaller tasks are called \"subprograms\" in computer science. According to the structured program theorem, the three ways subprograms can be combined are:\nThe theorem was first published in 1966 by Corrado Böhm and Guiseppe Jacopini. It comes from the 1946 description of the von Neumann architecture and the normal form theorem developed by Stephen Kleene.\n", "id": "305037", "title": "Structured program theorem"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305059", "text": "Lower Triassic\n\nThe Lower Triassic is the first of three epochs of the Triassic period. It lasted from about 252.2 million years ago (mya) to ~247.2 mya. The Lower Triassic is the oldest epoch of the Mesozoic era. These rocks were laid down just after the great Permian–Triassic extinction event.\n\nThe Lower Triassic was called the Scythian stage, which can be found in older literature. In Europe, most of the Lower Triassic is composed of sandstone. It is a lithostratigraphic unit of continental red beds. They were formed on land under desert conditions.\n\nThe massive extinctions that ended the Paleozoic era caused extreme hardship for the surviving species. Many types of corals, brachiopods, molluscs, echinoderms, and other invertebrates had completely disappeared. The most common hard-shelled marine invertebrates were bivalves, gastropods, ammonites, echinoids, and a few articulate brachiopods. The most common land animal was the herbivorous synapsid \"Lystrosaurus\". \n\nThe earliest Triassic faunas lacked biodiversity and were like that throughout the epoch. Recovery on land took 30 million years. \n\nThe first ichthyosaurs evolved in this epoch.\n\nThe climate during the Lower Triassic (especially in the interior of the supercontinent Pangaea) was generally dry. Deserts were widespread. The poles had a temperate climate. The relatively hot climate of the epoch may have been caused by widespread volcanic eruptions.\n", "id": "305059", "title": "Lower Triassic"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305064", "text": "Middle Triassic\n\nThe Middle Triassic is the second of three epochs of the Triassic period. It lasted from about 247.2 million years ago (mya) to ~237 mya.\n\nOnce the middle series in the Triassic was known as the Muschelkalk. This name is now only used for a unit of rock strata of Middle Triassic age, found in western Europe.\n\nArchosaurs were initially rarer than the therapsids which had dominated Permian terrestrial ecosystems, but they began to displace therapsids in the Middle Triassic. This 'Triassic takeover' may have contributed to the evolution of mammals. It forced the surviving therapsids and their mammalian successors to live as small, mainly nocturnal insectivores. Nocturnal life probably forced the proto-mammals to develop fur and higher metabolic rates. In their burrows, keeping warm, looking after the young and feeding them with milk were keys to their later success.\n\nThe ancestors of crocodiles, and the ancestors of pterosaurs and dinosaurs, were the most important archosaurs of this epoch.\n\nIn the Tethys Ocean, the first sauropterygia were present, the nothosaurs and early plesiosaurs. Ichthyosaurs had arrived in the Lower Triassic.\n", "id": "305064", "title": "Middle Triassic"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305068", "text": "Shahab al-Din Suhrawardi\n\nShahāb al-Dīn Yahya ibn Habash as-Suhrawardī (, also known as Sohrevardi) was a 12th-century Persian poet, philosopher and Sufi. He was the founder of the Illuminationist philosophy or \"Oriental Theosophy\", or the Suhrawardi Order of Sufism. He is sometimes also called \"Sheikh al Maqtul\" (The Murdered Master/Sage) as he was executed for his beliefs and practices by orthodox Islamic authorities.\n", "id": "305068", "title": "Shahab al-Din Suhrawardi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305069", "text": "Adduction\n\nAdduction is a movement. It brings a part of the anatomy closer to the sagittal plane of the body. It is the opposite of abduction.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nScallops have a central adductor muscle. It lets them open and close their shells. It is quite large and developed compared to other bivalves because they swim a lot.\n", "id": "305069", "title": "Adduction"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305073", "text": "List of Kurdish poets and authors\n\nThe following is a list of people who have contributed to the Kurdish literature.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "305073", "title": "List of Kurdish poets and authors"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305075", "text": "2011–12 FC Barcelona season\n\nThe 2011–12 season is Futbol Club Barcelona's 118th in the Spanish league.\n\nBarcelona signing a £125m deal with the Qatar Foundation.\n\n", "id": "305075", "title": "2011–12 FC Barcelona season"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305077", "text": "Strength Through Joy\n\nStrength Through Joy was a large state controlled program of rest and play in Nazi Germany. It made the tourism industry richer after a long time of no tourists. Many cruise ships were created specifically for this program, such as the MV Wilhelm Gustloff. Strength Through Joy was paused during the Second World War, and never restarted.\n", "id": "305077", "title": "Strength Through Joy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305079", "text": "Hospital ship\n\nA Hospital ship is a big boat which is built to cure patients. Most are operated by militaries, or by governments. Attacking one is a war crime, but Hospital ships are not allowed to carry any weapons, and enemy navies (if the owner of the Hospital ship is at war) are allowed to inspect them.\n", "id": "305079", "title": "Hospital ship"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305083", "text": "Volkswagen Beetle\n\nThe Volkswagen Beetle is a car manufactured by the Volkswagen company. It was designed by Dr. Ferdinand Porsche. When it was introduced, it had gone through over a million miles of testing - more than any other car at the time.\n\nThe history of the car is the history of the Volkswagen company - the company was created to make that car. Other than some military vehicles during WWII, it was the only car the company made at first.\n\nThe car was made from 1949 to 2003, over 23 million of them. For many years, it held the record as the most-sold car ever. It took the record from the Model T Ford in 1971, and held it until 2000 when the Toyota Corolla took it away.\n\nThe basic shape and design of the car did not change. It was also powered by an engine in the rear, had a small trunk up front, and was air-cooled (no radiator).\n\nMore recently, the company made the New Beetle, which looked similar, followed by the present-day Beetle from 2012. These are completely different cars however, since they have a water-cooled engine in the front, and are very similar underneath to the Volkswagen Golf.\n\nThere are many Volkswagen clubs around the world, the members restore or modify the original air-cooled Volkswagens.\n\nDisney made a series of films about a Beetle called .\n", "id": "305083", "title": "Volkswagen Beetle"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305084", "text": "Ferdinand Porsche\n\nFerdinand Porsche (September 3, 1875January 30, 1951) was born in Austria. He was a talented and well-known car designer, especially of race cars. But he always wanted to make a small car useful for a family. Finally Adolf Hitler gave him the opportunity to make the Volkswagen Beetle in 1936. But by the time the car started production, war broke out, and the company started making army vehicles instead. After World War II he was put in a French jail for almost 2 years but never convicted of a crime. He was released, but his health had been damaged and he died not long afterwards. He lived long enough to see his beloved small car being successfully produced by the Volkswagen company, but not to see the great success it eventually became.\n\nHe started the Porsche company in 1931. At first it made designs and prototypes for others (including the Volkswagen Beetle). Later, under his son Ferry Porsche's leadership, it started making high-end cars. It continues to produce high power cars to this day.\n\n\n", "id": "305084", "title": "Ferdinand Porsche"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305087", "text": "George Balanchine\n\nGeorge Balanchine (Saint Petersburg, January 22, 1904 – New York, April 30, 1983) was a ballet dancer and choreographer. His father was Georgian and his mother Russian. \n\nHe was one of the 20th century's most famous choreographers. He developed over 200 ballets, mostly in the United States. He was the co-founder and balletmaster of the New York City Ballet. He was a choreographer known for his musicality. He often with Igor Stravinsky: 39 of his ballets were choreographed to music by Stravinsky.\n\nBalanchine was trained at the Imperial Ballet School in St Petersburg. After the Revolution he joined what is now the Mariinsky Ballet. He escaped when the company toured Germany. He was picked up by Sergei Diaghilev to be a dancer and choreographer for the Ballets Russes.\n\nAfter Diaghilev's death, Balanchine stayed in Europe until 1933. Then he was taken to New York by a wealthy patron, Lincoln Kirstein. Together they formed the American Ballet School. Later they formed the American Ballet Company. This company became the 'house' dance group of the New York Metropolitan Opera. Later, in 1938, Balanchine moved the company to Hollywood.\n\nIn 1948 he moved back to New York. This was to head the New York City Ballet at the New York State Theater. He designed this theater. From 1946 to 1982 he choreographed many dances for this company. Balanchine died in 1983 of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.\n\nIn 1922 18 year old Balanchine married 15 year old Tamara Geva. After his divorce from Geva, Balanchine was with Alexandra Danilova from 1926 through 1933. He married and divorced three more times, all to women who were his dancers. There was Vera Zorina (December 1938–1946), Maria Tallchief (1946–1952), and Tanaquil Le Clercq (1952–1969). He did not have any children.\n", "id": "305087", "title": "George Balanchine"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305090", "text": "Tamara Karsavina\n\nTamara Platonovna Karsavina (10 March 1885 – 26 May 1978) was a Russian ballerina. She began her career in the Imperial Russian Ballet and later danced with the Diaghilev's Ballets Russes. \n\nKarsavina created the title role in \"The Firebird\", the Ballerina in \"Petrushka\", and The Young Girl in \"Le Spectre de la Rose\". After she settled in Hampstead, London, she began teaching ballet professionally. She assisted in setting up The Royal Ballet, and was a founding member of the Royal Academy of Dance. Her pupils included Dame Alicia Markova and Dame Margot Fonteyn. She wrote two books: the autobiography \"Theatre Street\" (1930) and the dance textbook \"Classical Ballet: the flow of movement\" (1962).\n\n", "id": "305090", "title": "Tamara Karsavina"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305096", "text": "Kingdom Tower\n\nKingdom Tower is a skyscraper that is under construction. The tower is being built in Jeddah, a major port city on the Red Sea coast of Saudi Arabia. After its completion, Kingdom Tower will be the tallest building in the world, according to Construction Weekly. The consultants at Advanced Construction Technology Services state that the new tower will be approximately 1 kilometer (3,280 feet) high, which is significantly taller than the current Guinness World Record holder, the Burj Khalifa. In contrast, the Burj Khalifa is only 827 meters, or 2,716 feet high. \n\nKingdom Tower will be the first part in a new project called Kingdom City, a planned suburb of Jeddah, with plans to eventually become a new city entirely. Plans for Kingdom Tower have been circulating since 2008, when it was originally named the \"Mile-High Tower,\" for the obvious reason that it was going to be a mile high. However, the foundation where the Kingdom Holding Company wanted to build the tower was not stable enough to support such a large project. Instead, the company settled for the kilometer high title, where on August 2, 2011, Kingdom Holding announced that construction would commence soon, as the support for the tower had finally been gathered. The idea of Kingdom Tower is accredited to the Prince of Saudi Arabia, Al-Waleed bin Talal, whom also owns Kingdom Holding Company. The prince is the main contributor to this project, as he is known to be one of the wealthiest men in the world. \n\nHowever, many people are complaining that the tower is going to be a waste of much needed capital. The government has many problems and issues that require the money of the Saudi Arabian government, such as improving education and providing jobs that will benefit the country as a whole. As such, there are some that believe the country cannot afford to pursue such a large project. Many believe that this project is an elitist venture made simply to compete with the already-failed Burj Khalifa, which is known to be almost completely empty. Saudi Arabians and immigrants alike fear that the project is going to be a failure in stimulating the lagging economy of Saudi Arabia, and will instead add to the debt of the country. \n\nStill, others also believe that the project will benefit the economy of Saudi Arabia, bringing in much needed jobs to help construct the building, and will bring in a large amount of tourism already concentrated within the Hejaz area where Jeddah resides. \n\n", "id": "305096", "title": "Kingdom Tower"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305100", "text": "Harmonium\n\nA harmonium, also called a \"melodeon\", \"reed organ\" or \"pump organ\", is a keyboard instrument that is a lot like an organ. It makes sound by blowing air through reeds, which are tuned to different pitches to make musical notes.\n\nA harmonium can be made to work using either the feet or the hands:\nThe hand-pumped harmonium was created by Dwakranath Ghose so that the instrument could be played while the player was sitting down on the floor. It is used in India, Pakistan, Nepal, Afghanistan and in other Asian countries as an accompanying instrument in Hindustani classical music, Sufi Music, Bhajan and other devotional music, Qawwali, Natya Sangeet, and a variety of genres including accompaniment to Classical Kathak Dance. Nomadic singers string it and wear it around their shoulders taking part in village fairs and festivals.\n\nHarmonium with a Swarmandal (a small, harp-like instrument, similar to Zither and Autoharp) was produced by Bhishmadev Vedi. As the Swaramandal box was too big for the Harmonium, his disciple Manohar Chimote fixed the strings within the breadth of the instrument naming it as ‘Samvadini’. This instrument allows the strings to be played by the hand on the bellows, and keys by the other hand. Chimote provided a new natural ‘Gandhar’ tuning in this Harmonium. Although this tuning was limited to the 12 tones versus the 22 required in Hindustani classical music, it surely gave the European tuning of the Harmonium, an Indian flavour.\n\n22-Shruti-Harmonium was created by Vidyadhar Oke (Indian Patent No. 250197). To achieve this, he first clarified the essential difference between 'Nada' and 'Shruti' and pinpointed the positions to play the 22 Microtones (Shrutis) on any string instrument. He documented the specific difference between 22 Shrutis versus the 12-Tone Equal temperament Scale. His 22-Shruti-Harmonium provides special knobs below each of the keys to regulate the reeds, making 22 Shrutis available within 12 keys. As this is a modified hand-pumped harmonium, no special playing skill is necessary. The 22-Shruti-Harmonium enables the creation of any Raga with all the notes perfectly consonant with a Tanpura. Additionally, by positioning all the knobs in the central position, the 22-Shruti-Harmonium can produce the sound of an Accordion.\n\n", "id": "305100", "title": "Harmonium"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305101", "text": "KrioRus\n\nKrioRus is a cryonics company that freezes dead people or animals. People do that in hope that, in the future when medicine becomes better, they can have life again, solve their health problems and have eternal life.\n\nKrioRus is in Russia but can freeze people from every part of the world, specially from Europe and Asia.\n\n\n", "id": "305101", "title": "KrioRus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305105", "text": "Butler, Alabama\n\nButler is a city in Choctaw County, Alabama, United States. At the 2000 census the population was 1,952. The city is the county seat of Choctaw County.\n\nWhen Choctaw County was formed in 1847, Butler was created as the county seat. The town was located and settled in 1848. It is named in honor of Colonel Pierce Butler, a soldier killed in the Mexican-American War.\n\nPublic education is provided by the Choctaw County School District. Choctaw County High School has grades 7 through 12. Choctaw County Elementary School has grades K through 6. Patrician Academy is a private school (grades pre-K through 12) located in Butler.\n\n", "id": "305105", "title": "Butler, Alabama"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305108", "text": "Aerial warfare\n\nAerial warfare is fighting a war in the air. This is usually done by using helicopters and airplanes. Bombers and Attack aircraft fight enemies on the ground. Fighter planes fight other airplanes. \n", "id": "305108", "title": "Aerial warfare"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305109", "text": "United States Military Academy at West Point\n\nThe United States Military Academy at West Point (also known as West Point, USMA, Army (athletic teams)) is a university that teaches students to become officers in the US Army. Students are called \"cadets\" and are subject to military rules while studying subjects like engineering and military science for four years. For many years, West Point only taught men, but in 1976 West Point admitted its first female cadets. Women currently comprise approximately 15% of entering new cadets.\n\nMilitary officers compose 75% of the faculty. Civilian professors make up the remaining 25% of faculty positions.\n\nCongress formally authorized and funded West Point on 16 March 1802. West Point was so successful, that military academies were added later for the Navy, Coast Guard and Air Force.\n\nWest Point has a very broad sports program. All of its students are required to compete in at least one sport, either at the intramural (i.e., within the school) or intercollegiate (i.e., against other schools) level, in every semester.\n\nThe Army intercollegiate sports teams are nicknamed \"Black Knights\". Most Army teams play in the Patriot League. The football team plays at the highest level, known as Division I FBS, but is independent—not in any conference. The men's ice hockey team plays in Atlantic Hockey.\n\n\n", "id": "305109", "title": "United States Military Academy at West Point"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305110", "text": "Barebacking\n\nBarebacking is when people have sexual intercourse without using a condom. The term originated in the gay community, and was used to refer to unprotected anal sex. The word is related to \"bareback\", which means riding a horse without a saddle. Barebacking refers to a deliberate decision to not use a condom, forgetting to use a condom is not barebacking.\n\nBarebacking is dangerous, because there is a high risk of infection with sexually transmitted diseases, such as Syphilis, or HIV. Even if both partners are HIV positive, there is a risk of infection with other strains of HIV. This may mean that the disease becomes more difficult to treat, or that certain drugs stop working.\n", "id": "305110", "title": "Barebacking"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305111", "text": "Conscription\n\nConscription, also called draft, is when a government forces people to join the armed forces. Usually, only men are conscripted, but in Israel, women are as well. A soldier who has been forced to serve in the army is called a \"conscript\". Conscription is a very old way to build up armies, but also usually very unpopular, since very few men enjoy fighting and killing other people. Historically conscription was called \"levy\", but it was so unpopular that it was used only when the country was in really dire danger.\n\n18th century Prussia had a conscript army but the first large, modern conscript army was the French Grand Army in the French Revolution. The leaders drafted all French men into the army. The result was that the French army was five times larger than that of neighbour countries, and the sheer numbers often won battles. While the French soldiers were less well trained and equipped than the soldiers of the neighbour armies, they were so many that they could win. Conscription became the universal way of making up the armies after the French Revolution. Almost all the powerful armies in the world except United Kingdom were conscripted armies. Without conscription, the large armies of World War One and World War Two would have been impossible to form.\n\nConscription armies are large, but they are often poorly equipped and trained and have poor morale. In combat they usually suffer many casualties. Usually conscripts serve with little pay and many are treated little better than slaves. Conscription can be considered as a form of forced labour. In many countries, young men who refuse to join the army are sentenced to prison. Many people \"dodged\" or illegally avoided conscription during the Vietnam War in the United States.\n\nThere are arguments for conscription. Some see it as fair, since everyone shares the burden of service. A small country with few people can make up a large enough army by conscription. If a country is in the midst of hostile neighbours and war can break up at any time, or if the country is a \"buffer state\" (= is located between two military blocks), training all available young people as soldiers can be a good idea.\n\nThe alternatives for conscription are militia system, as in Switzerland, or professional army made up from volunteers. The United States gave up conscription during the Cold War. The Vietnam War proved so unpopular that the Army no longer wanted conscripts, but volunteers, which have better motivation to serve. Most other Western World countries followed the American example and gave up conscription. Some American countries now have all-volunteer army and in Europe universal conscription remains only in some countries like Finland, Russia and Turkey.\n\nIn Germany, conscription for the Bundeswehr has been removed in July 2011 after a long discussion in the German Bundestag.\n\nPeople who oppose conscription because of pacifism idea are called conscientious objectors. Some countries still draft conscientious objectors, but give them jobs where they will not have to fight in combat. \n", "id": "305111", "title": "Conscription"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305113", "text": "Lalian\n\nLalian is a capital city of Lalian Tehsil in Punjab, Pakistan. It is on the Sargodha road from Chiniot.\n", "id": "305113", "title": "Lalian"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305128", "text": "Common misconceptions\n\nThis is a list of popular wrong ideas and beliefs about notable topics. Each has been discussed in published literature.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "305128", "title": "Common misconceptions"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305131", "text": "Limerick F.C.\n\nLimerick Football Club is a football club based in Limerick, Ireland. The club currently play in the First Division of the League of Ireland. The first Limerick FC was created in 1937 and has had a number of names since its creation, known at different times as Limerick FC, Limerick United, and Limerick City. Under UEFA rules, the club could not get a licence to play in the First Division in 2007. A separate club, Limerick 37, was formed to replace Limerick FC in the league and competed under this name for two seasons. Limerick 37 has been renamed as Limerick FC. Although the current Limerick FC and Limerick 37 are a different club to the original Limerick FC, however there has only ever been one senior football club in Limerick City at one time since 1937.\n\nLimerick FC won the League of Ireland title twice, in the 1959-60 and 1979-80 seasons, and the FAI Cup twice, in 1971 and 1982. They also won the League of Ireland Cup three times, 1976–77, 1992–93 and 2001-02. The club has competed in European competitions on six occasions, playing against bigger clubs such as Real Madrid and Southampton FC.\n\nLimerick FC has used a number of stadiums around the city as their home ground over the years, including The Market's Field in Garryowen, Jackman Park on Carey's Road, Hogan Park in Rathbane, Thomond Park and Pike Rovers ground at Crossagalla. The Market's Field has always been considered to be the home of football in the city as the club enjoyed success at the venue and moving from there to Hogan Park heralded a serious decline in the club's fortunes. The club is currently using Jackman Park, which belongs to the Limerick District League (LDMC), for home games. It has a training base at Knocklisheen, on the north side of the city.\n\nLimerick played in European competitions six times in its history. In 12 matches they scored 7 goals and while the club never won a European game, it drew twice. One of those draws was at The Dell against a Southampton team that included former European Footballer of the Year Kevin Keegan and Mick Channon. In the home fixture famous rugby international Tony Ward played well against a Yugoslav international defender Ivan Golac.\nLimerick first competed in 1960 in the European Cup against Young Boys Berne, but suffered their heaviest aggregate defeat. Limerick moved their 1965 Cup Winners' Cup home leg to Dalymount Park - one of only two 'home' games played outside of Limerick. Interestingly, Pat Nolan is the only player ever to have scored for Limerick in Limerick in a European game.\n\nThe most famous European game was the 'home' match against Real Madrid in the European Cup in 1980. The match was played at Lansdowne Road where Dublin football fans stayed away en masse. Only 6,000 people watched the match. The final score 2-1 to Madrid. Des Kennedy scored twice in the tie, one at home and one away. English born Left winger Johnny Matthews had a 'goal' disallowed. Had it been given he would have completed a unique treble, as he had previously scored in European competition against Manchester United and Celtic while at Waterford United.\n\n\nǣ\n\nb\n\n\n", "id": "305131", "title": "Limerick F.C."}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305136", "text": "Dawn (spacecraft)\n\nDawn is an unmanned NASA space probe. It has orbited and studied the asteroid Vesta, and it is currently orbiting the dwarf planet Ceres. Both Vesta and Ceres are in the asteroid belt. Dawn is the first spacecraft to visit Ceres and the first to visit Vesta. It also is the first spacecraft to orbit two extraterrestrial bodies.\n\nDawn was launched on September 27, 2007 at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station aboard a Delta 7925-H rocket. It then travelled to Mars for a gravity assist, making its closest approach to Mars in February 2009. \nNext, Dawn set off for Vesta. It went into orbit in July, 2011. On September 5, 2012, Dawn left Vesta and headed for Ceres. It began to orbit Ceres on March 6, 2015.\n\n", "id": "305136", "title": "Dawn (spacecraft)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305137", "text": "2001–02 Asian Club Championship\n\nThe 2001-02 Asian Cup Championship was 21st and the last Asian Cup Championships. The AFC Champions League was created after this tournament. The champions were Suwon Samsung Bluewings, defeating Anyang LG Cheetahs 0[4] -0[2]. The tournament final was played in Azadi Stadium, Tehran.\n\nSuwon Samsung Bluewings won their second title on this tournament.\n", "id": "305137", "title": "2001–02 Asian Club Championship"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305140", "text": "2009–10 UEFA Champions League\n\nThe 2009–10 UEFA Champions League was the 55th UEFA Champions League. The champions were Internazionale with their third title. They defeated Bayern Munich 2-0. No third place game was played, but Lyon and FC Barcelona were defeated in the semifinals.\n", "id": "305140", "title": "2009–10 UEFA Champions League"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305141", "text": "Phillips Exeter Academy\n\nPhillips Exeter Academy is a high school in New Hampshire. It is a boarding school, so students live there, not with their families. Many politicians, writers, and other leaders have graduated from this school.\n", "id": "305141", "title": "Phillips Exeter Academy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305147", "text": "Emblem\n\nAn emblem is a pictorial image either abstract or representational. It represents a concept — for example, a moral truth, or an allegory — or a person, such as a king or saint. For example, the scallop shell is the traditional emblem of James, son of Zebedee. Pilgrims wore it on their hat or clothes to show that they were travelling to the shrine at Santiago de Compostela.\n", "id": "305147", "title": "Emblem"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305151", "text": "List of U.S. state shells\n\nThis is a list of official state shells for States of the USA that have chosen one as part of their state insignia.\n\nThese are seashells. They are the shells of various marine mollusks, gastropod and bivalves. They represent a maritime state.\n", "id": "305151", "title": "List of U.S. state shells"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305152", "text": "Tasman Bay\n\nTasman Bay is a large bay at the north of New Zealand's South Island. It is in the shape of a \"V\". It is in the middle of the island's northern coast. It is 120 km long and 70 km wide. It is a part of the coast of the Tasman Sea, on the western side of the Cook Strait.\nAt the western side of the bay, the land around has dense vegetation. The separation point between the Tasman Bay and the next bay, Golden Bay, is in the west. It is a part of the Abel Tasman National Park. On the east side, the bay is bounded by valleys of the Marlborough Sounds. \n\nA few rivers enter the sea at this point. Some of them are Waimea River, Riwaka, the Motueka and Serpentine River. Tasman Bay contains the rare rock formation known as the Boulder Bank.\n\nThe land around the centre of the bay is cultivated. It is well known for its crops like apples, kiwifruit, olives, grapes and hops. Tasman bay produced Tobacco there in the middle of the twentieth century. Now there is a Tobacco museum in Motueka. This is also the most populated part of the South Island's north coast. Several towns and the city of Nelson are there. Other large towns are Motueka, Riwaka and Richmond.\n", "id": "305152", "title": "Tasman Bay"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305153", "text": "Royal Forest and Bird Protection Society of New Zealand\n\nThe Royal Forest and Bird Protection Society of New Zealand Inc. (Forest & Bird) is an environmental organisation. It specialises in conservation of indigenous plant and animal life in and around New Zealand.\n", "id": "305153", "title": "Royal Forest and Bird Protection Society of New Zealand"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305159", "text": "Fishing dredge\n\nA fishing dredge, also known as a scallop dredge or an oyster dredge, is a kind of fishing net. It is pulled along the bottom of the sea by a fishing boat to collect scallops, oysters and other kind of clams, crabs, and sea cucumber. Fishermen then lift the dredge into the boat and empty it. \n\nIn Europe, used to have \"teeth\" at the bottom, called tynes. These teeth raked or ploughed the sand and mud. This dug up buried clams. The New Bedford (USA) dredge does not have teeth.\n\nDredge nets have a gross mesh in order to let organisms smaller than the target organisms through. The net catches the larger organisms: in the case of scallop dredging that includes the scallops' predators, such as whelks, starfish and octopus. \n\nSometimes three or four dredges are attached to a wheeled stiff axle. A number of these dredges can be towed from a heavy spreading bar. Usually there is one on each side of the ship. The length of the bar and the number of dredges towed is dependent on the power of the ship and the room on the side of the boat for working the dredges. There could be 3 on each side on a small 10 metre boat. There could be up to 20 on each side for a 30 metre ship with 1500 hp. The weight and strength of this can dig up the ground. It overturns rocks and can crush animals and plants in its path.\n\nScallops often contain sand when fishermen use dredges. It can also damage the seabed if they use dredges carelessly. These days scallop dredging is sometimes replaced by scuba diving. However inventors are trying to invent a better dredge.\n\n\n\n", "id": "305159", "title": "Fishing dredge"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305160", "text": "Way of St. James\n\nThe Way of St. James or St. James' Way (, , , ) is the pilgrimage route to the Cathedral of Santiago de Compostela in Galicia in northwestern Spain. Tradition says that the remains of the apostle Saint James are buried there.\n\n", "id": "305160", "title": "Way of St. James"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305164", "text": "Oyster Burns\n\nThomas P. \"Oyster\" Burns (September 6, 1864– November 11, 1928) was an American baseball player. He played 11 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Wilmington Quicksteps, Baltimore Orioles, Brooklyn Bridegrooms, and New York Giants. Burns mostly played as an outfielder. He also played as a shortstop, second baseman, third baseman and pitcher. Over his career he compiled a batting average of .300 with 1,392 hits, 65 home runs, and 834 runs batted in (RBI) in 1,188 games played. Burns spent most of his career in the major leagues. He also played in minor league baseball. He first played in MLB at age 19. In his playing days, Burns was tall and weighed .\n\nBurns was nicknamed \"Oyster\" because he sold oysters in the off-season. He was described as a \"loudmouth\" with \"an irritating voice and personality\". Burns led the Bridegrooms to an American Association championship in 1889 and a National League pennant in 1890. He retired from baseball in 1901. He died on November 11, 1928, in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nBurns was born on September 6, 1864, in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. His parents, Patrick and Mary Burns, both came to the United States from Ireland.\n\nIn 1883, Burns began his professional baseball career. He played as a pitcher for a minor league team in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. In his first season, Burns had an earned run average (ERA) of 2.30, and pitched in 20 games. When he was not pitching, Burns played second and third base.\nBurns began the 1884 season playing for the Wilmington Quicksteps. He left the team on August 21, 1884, after they joined the Union Association. On the same day, Burns joined the Baltimore Orioles. At the age of 18, he was the youngest player on the Orioles. Burns played in only 35 games that season but had six home runs. He hit more home runs than any other player on the team that season. In 1885, he batted .231 with five home runs and 37 RBIs. Burns pitched to a 7–4 win–loss record. His low batting average, however, led him to be demoted to the Newark Domestics for the 1886 season. Burns helped the Domestics win the Eastern League pennant. By 1887, he returned to playing in the majors for the Orioles. He became the Orioles' team captain. Burns lost the role when he threw a baseball at a pitcher on another team. He was later fined $25.\n\nOver the 1887 season, Burns hit nine home runs. He had 19 triples, which was tied with five other players for the American Association lead. He played in 140 games, which also tied for the league's lead.\n\nAfter playing in 79 games for Baltimore, Burns was moved to the Brooklyn Bridegrooms by Harry Von der Horst. Von der Horst owned both teams. While playing for the Bridegrooms, the \"New York Clipper\" described Burns as \"the noisiest man that ever played on the Brooklyn team. His voice reminds one of a buzz-saw.\" Burns remained with the Bridegrooms for the 1889 season. He had team highs in batting average and home runs. That season the Bridegrooms became American Association champions. In the World Series, the Bridegrooms played the New York Giants. Burns hit a three-run home run to win the fourth game of the series. This gave Brooklyn a 3–1 series lead. However, the Giants won the World Series after winning five straight games.\n\nIn 1890, the Bridegrooms moved to the National League. Burns, then 26, led the league in home runs (13) and RBIs (128). He hit for the cycle on August 1, 1890. He was the first Bridegroom to do so. The Bridegrooms won the National League pennant. In the 1890 World Series, the team played against the Louisville Colonels. The series ended in a 3–3–1 tie because of bad weather. In 1892, the Bridegrooms changed their name to the Grooms. Burns's RBI total was third highest in the league. His hits, doubles, triples, and batting average were the second highest on the Brooklyn team. In 1893, between games of a doubleheader, a teammate of Burns, Tom Daly, was sleeping in center field. Burns stabbed Daly with a knife. Daly woke up and turned into the knife. This led to a severed tendon which kept Daly out for two weeks. Burns' 1894 batting average (.355) was the highest of his career. He continued to play for the club until 1895, when he left the Grooms to play for the New York Giants. In his final MLB year, Burns batted .258 over 53 games.\n\nAfter the 1895 season, Burns' contract was bought by the minor league Newark Colts. The Colts won the Atlantic League division with a 82–61 record. The next season, Burns served as a player-coach for the Hartford Bluebirds. He lead the team in doubles and batting average. In his final year managing, Burns coached for a minor league team in Portland, Maine.\n\nAfter retiring from baseball, Burns lived in Brooklyn. He died on November 11, 1928. He was buried in Holy Cross Cemetery in North Arlington, New Jersey.\n", "id": "305164", "title": "Oyster Burns"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305167", "text": "Thomas Wolsey\n\nThomas Wolsey (born between 1471 and 1476 at Ipswich, Suffolk; died 29 November 1530) was an English statesman and archbishop. He was made a cardinal in 1515. Of humble origin, Thomas Wolsey became the principal figure in affairs of state for many years during the reign of King Henry VIII of England before falling into disgrace. \n\nCardinal Wolsey chiefly developed his talents in managing the foreign policy of the kingdom on behalf of Henry VIII. In spite of the many enemies who envied his ambition, he was able to acquire the confidence of the king until the latter decided to have his marriage to Catherine of Aragon annulled in order to marry Anne Boleyn.\n\n\n", "id": "305167", "title": "Thomas Wolsey"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305168", "text": "Pacifier\n\nA pacifier (called a dummy or soother in some countries) is an object that a baby sucks to comfort them. Sucking is a natural instinct for babies and it soothes them.\n\nIt generally consists of a teat (which is the part designed to be sucked) made from either silicone (a type of plastic) or latex (a form of rubber). Silicone is becoming more popular as it is more durable and easier to keep clean. The teat is mounted on a plastic plate which can vary in shape from circular, oval or butterfly shape. It can come in a variety of different colors with different designs like cartoon characters to make it look more appealing to the baby. The main purpose of the plastic mouth guard is to stop the baby from accidentally swallowing the pacifier. If for some reason the child is able to swallow it, the mouth guard is made to be too large to pass through the throat and if it should get lodged in the throat it also has holes to allow air to pass through so the child can still breathe. Finally there is sometimes a ring attached to allow the parent to remove the pacifier.\n\nThere is some concern that the use of pacifiers can affect the child's teeth so many teats now are a special shape to allow the teeth to form properly, these are called orthodontic teats. Non-orthodontic teats are sometimes called cherry teats.\n", "id": "305168", "title": "Pacifier"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305173", "text": "Wilmington Quicksteps\n\nThe Wilmington Quicksteps were a baseball team in the Union Association. They finished with a 2–16 record and were managed by Joe Simmons. The team played home games in Union Street Park in Wilmington, Delaware.\n", "id": "305173", "title": "Wilmington Quicksteps"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305174", "text": "Games played\n\nGames played (abbreviated as G or GP) is a statistic. It is used in team sports to show the total number of games in which a player has participated in.\n\nIn baseball, the statistic also applies to players who are included on a starting lineup card whether they play or not. \n", "id": "305174", "title": "Games played"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305175", "text": "Triple (baseball)\n\nIn baseball, a triple is when a batter reaches third base on a hit without an error occurring in the field. Chief Wilson hit the most triples, recording 36 in 1912.\n", "id": "305175", "title": "Triple (baseball)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305182", "text": "Maulana Mohammad Ali\n\nMoulana Mohammad Ali Johar (10 December 1878 – 4 January 1931) was an Indian Muslim leader, activist, scholar, journalist and poet. He was born on 10 December 1878 in Rampur. He belonged to a pathan tribe of Khyber Pakhtoon Khawa. He studied at the famous Muslim institutes, Darul Uloom Deoband and Aligarh Muslim University. He studied modern history from Oxford University in 1898. On his return to India he became the educational director of Rampur state.\n\nHe attended the first meeting of the Muslim League in 1906. He was a brilliant writer both in English and Urdu. He started his own newspapers called \"Hamdard\" and \"Comrade\" in 1911. He worked hard to expand the Mohammadan Anglo Oriental College. He was also a co-founder of Jamia Millia Islamia. He became the president of Muslim League in 1918 and worked with it till 1928.\n\nHe travelled to England in 1919 to stop the deposition of the Turkish Sultan, Mustafa Kemal who was the Caliph of Islam. The rejection of British started the Khilafat Movement by the Muslims. In 1921 he actively brought Muslims together against the British rule and was thus put in jail for 2 years.\n\nHe became president of Indian National Congress in 1923. He opposed the Nehru Report as he did not want British or Hindu leadership and thus supported the Fourteen points of Quaid-e-Azam. He attended the famous Round Table Conference in 1930 for Muslim League. He fell ill and died soon afterwards in London on 4 January 1931. He was buried at Baitul Muqaddas in Jerusalem upon his will.\n", "id": "305182", "title": "Maulana Mohammad Ali"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305187", "text": "Golden, Colorado\n\nGolden, Colorado is a city in the US state of Colorado. It is the county seat of Jefferson County, Colorado. It was founded on June 16, 1859 during the Pike's Peak Gold Rush. Golden City was the capital of the Territory of Jefferson from 1860 to 1861, and the capital of Colorado Territory from 1862 to 1867. In 1867, the capital was moved to Denver City.\n\nIn 2005, there were 17,366 people living in Golden.\n", "id": "305187", "title": "Golden, Colorado"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305191", "text": "Sprawl trilogy\n\nThe \"Sprawl\" trilogy is William Gibson's first set of novels. The three books in the series are: \"Neuromancer\" (1984), \"Count Zero\" (1986), and \"Mona Lisa Overdrive\" (1988). It is also called the Neuromancer, Cyberspace, or Matrix trilogy. \"The Sprawl\" is a name for a very large city in the novels.\n\nThe stories all happen in the same fictional future. The books share characters and themes. Some of Gibson's short stories \"Johnny Mnemonic,\" \"New Rose Hotel,\" and \"Burning Chrome\" also happen in the Sprawl.\n", "id": "305191", "title": "Sprawl trilogy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305195", "text": "Emerald, Victoria\n\nEmerald is a small town in Victoria, Australia. It is 44km south-east of Melbourne. In 2006 there were 6,135 people living in Emerald. The large Cardinia Reservoir which supplies water to Melbourne is in Emerald.\n", "id": "305195", "title": "Emerald, Victoria"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305206", "text": "Panzerschreck\n\nA Panzerschreck (also known as a \"Raketenpanzerbüchse\", abbreviated to RPzB) is an infantry weapon made by Nazi Germany. They fired an 88 mm calibre anti-tank rocket. Unlike the Panzerfaust, they were reusuable.\n", "id": "305206", "title": "Panzerschreck"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305207", "text": "Markus Persson\n\nMarkus \"Notch\" Persson (born 1 June 1979) is a Swedish game designer. He is famous for creating the video game Minecraft. Persson started the company Mojang AB in 2009. On September 15 2014 he announced that he would be leaving the company. \n", "id": "305207", "title": "Markus Persson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305208", "text": "Pyeongchang\n\nPyeongchang is a city in the Republic of Korea. It will host the 2018 Winter Olympic Games.\n", "id": "305208", "title": "Pyeongchang"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305215", "text": "Cape Conran Coastal Park\n\nCape Conran Coastal Park is a coastal reserve near Marlo in East Gippsland, Victoria, Australia. It is 420 km east of Melbourne and 530 km south of Sydney. It covers an area of 11,700 hectares, and has 60 kilometres of coast line. Most of the area is covered in banksias and woodland which attracts many nectar feeding birds. Other birds seen in the area include the White-bellied Sea Eagles and Eastern Ground Parrots.\nWhales and dolphins can sometimes be seen near the coast at certain times of the year.\n", "id": "305215", "title": "Cape Conran Coastal Park"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305216", "text": "Seoul National University\n\nSeoul National University is a university in Seoul, South Korea.\n\nA notable former student is Ban Ki-moon.\n", "id": "305216", "title": "Seoul National University"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305235", "text": "Margot Fonteyn\n\nDame Margot Fonteyn DBE (born Peggy Hookham, Reigate, Surrey, 18 May 1919 – Panama City, 21 February 1991) was an English ballerina. She is widely regarded as one of the greatest classical ballet dancers of all time.\n\nShe spent her entire career as a dancer with the Royal Ballet, eventually being appointed \"Prima Ballerina Assoluta\" of the company by Queen Elizabeth II. This is an honour rarely given to a dancer. The highest rank in the Royal Ballet today is \"Principal dancer\". Fonteyn's appointment as a Dame commander of the British Empire is the female equivalent to a knighthood.\n\nFonteyn danced until 1979, when she was nearly 60. This is unusual for any dancer, male or female. Her career was expected to end round about 1960, but it was reborn by a new partnership with a Russian dancer who had escaped from the Soviet Union. He was Rudolph Nureyev, one of the three greatest male ballet dancers of the twentieth century. Though he was 19 years younger than her, the partnership flourished, and was called \"the most famous partnership in ballet history\".\n\nShe married a Panamanian politician in 1955. He survived an assassin's bullets ten years later. She continued dancing to raise money for his upkeep. The marriage was not happy; he had a mistress. However, the couple remained married until his death in 1989.\n\nSeveral films were made of her performances.\n\n", "id": "305235", "title": "Margot Fonteyn"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305246", "text": "Hampstead\n\nHampstead is a district of London, England, about north-west of Charing Cross. It is part of the London Borough of Camden. It is known for its intellectual, liberal, artistic, musical and literary associations and for the large and hilly parkland Hampstead Heath. Some of the most expensive housing in the London area, or indeed anywhere in the world is in Hampstead, with large houses selling for up to £50m (2008). The village of Hampstead has more millionaires within its boundaries than any other area of the United Kingdom.\n\nHampstead has long been known as a residence of writers, composers, ballerinas, intellectuals, actors, artists and architects, many of whom created a bohemian community in the late 19th century. After 1917, and again in the 1930s, it became base to a community of avant garde artists and writers and was host to a number of émigrés and exiles from the Russian Revolution and Nazi Europe.\n", "id": "305246", "title": "Hampstead"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305256", "text": "Cosmic dust\n\nCosmic dust (also known as star dust and space dust) is a type of dust. It is very small crystals sent out from stars.\n\nIt is formed when a star, such as the Sun, sends out atoms. Some of the atoms become ions by gaining or losing electrons and becoming negatively and positively charged. These oppositely charged ions form an ionic bond, sticking together in tiny crystals, a few thousand nanometres across, to form cosmic dust.\n\nCosmic dust is split into further types of dust, based on the dust's location. These types include intergalactic dust, which can be found between galaxies, interstellar dust, found between stars, circumplanetary dust, which can be found around planets and in planetary rings and interplanetary dust, which can be found between planets. \n\nThe coming together of large amounts of dust over time leads to the creation of planets, the Earth, for example.\n", "id": "305256", "title": "Cosmic dust"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305259", "text": "Sautéing\n\nSautéing is a method of cooking food. It uses a small amount of fat in a shallow pan. The heat must be quite high. Ingredients are often cut into pieces or sliced thinly. It makes things cook faster. \nFood that is sautéed is browned, but it keeps the same texture, moisture and flavor. If meat, or fish is sautéed, the sauté is sometimes finished by using the pan's remains to make a sauce.\n\nSautéing is different from pan-frying. People sometimes confuse the two. In pan-frying larger pieces of food (for example, chops or steaks) are cooked quickly. Sautéing is also different from searing. Searing only browns the surface of the food. Olive oil or clarified butter are commonly used for sautéing. Most others fats will work too. Regular butter will produce more flavor. However it burns at a lower temperature and more quickly than other fats. This is because of the milk solids in it. Therefore clarified butter is better for sautéing.\n", "id": "305259", "title": "Sautéing"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305264", "text": "Li Zehou\n\nLi Zehou (born in 1930 in China) is a Chinese scholar who lives in the United States. He is an important scholar of Chinese history and culture. He criticized the Chinese government's response to the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Because of that, his books and articles were banned in China. He was invited to the United States to teach. He was granted permanent resident status. Li has an important role in Chinese culture. Professor Yu Ying-shih of Princeton University wrote that Li's books helped a whole generation of young Chinese students become free from communist ideas.\n\n\n\n", "id": "305264", "title": "Li Zehou"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305267", "text": "Cynthia DeFelice\n\nCynthia DeFelice (born in 1951 in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania) is an American children's book writer. She has written 16 novels, and 12 picture books for young readers. Her novels are written for children at the reading level of ages nine to twelve.\n\nShe was born Cynthia Carter in 1951. Her father was a psychiatrist, and her mother was an English teacher, who stopped working to raise DeFelice and her siblings. She credits her mother for her interest in books. She began writing children's books in 1987. She lives in Geneva, New York.\n\n\n\n", "id": "305267", "title": "Cynthia DeFelice"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305274", "text": "Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day\n\nAlexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day is a children's picture book written by Judith Viorst and illustrated by Ray Cruz. It was published in 1972 by Simon and Schuster. It is a humorous story about a boy named Alexander and how one day everything went wrong for him, so he started thinking of moving to Australia. But at the end, he realized that other people have bad days too, even in Australia. In 2011 Century Fox confirmed to make a live-action film based on the book but was later picked by The Walt Disney Company. In 2014, Disney released a film adaption, of the same name loosely based on the book.\n", "id": "305274", "title": "Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305277", "text": "Pippi Longstocking (book)\n\nPippi Longstocking () is a novel by Astrid Lindgren. It was originally published in Sweden on 26 November 1945. It is the first in a series of books about Pippi Longstocking. Pippi is a girl who lives alone in a house with her pets, a monkey named Mr. Nilsson and a horse that she keeps on the porch. She befriends Tommy and his sister Annika, who live next door to her.\n\nAs of 2009, the book has been translated into 64 languages.\n\nAstrid Lindgren first thought of Pippi Longstocking in 1941. Her 7-year-old daughter Karin was sick and had to be kept in bed. She asked her mother to tell her a story, so Lindgren made up a character named Pippi Longstocking and some stories about her to entertain her daughter. In 1944, she wrote them down and sent the manuscript of the book to Bonnier Publishers. They said that they did not want to publish the book. When the publishing company Rabén and Sjögren announced a children's book contest on January 28 of the next year, she sent a new version of the book to the company. It won first prize and was published in 1945. Afterwards, Rabén and Sjögren would also publish the sequels, \"Pippi Goes on Board\" (1946) and \"Pippi in the South Seas\" (1948). Since then, the series has been translated into many other languages. It has also been adapted into a television series and two movies.\n\nPippi is a girl who is 9 years old. She lives alone in Villa Villekulla, an old house in a garden way out at the end of a small town (the name of the town is not given). She lives there all alone because her father, a sea captain called Captain Efraim Longstocking, disappeared when he was washed overboard in a storm and her mother died when she was very young. Pippi believes that her mother is now an angel in Heaven, watching her through a peephole and her father, instead of drowning after being washed overboard, had actually floated to an island filled with cannibals and become a cannibal king.\n\nLuckily for her, her father had bought Villa Villekulla many years ago so that when he would grow old he would move into the house with his daughter. So Pippi decides to move into the house with the two things she had taken from her father's ship: her pet monkey named Mr. Nilsson (a present from her father) and a suitcase filled with gold coins. After moving into the house, she also buys a horse, which she keeps on the porch. She likes living alone because nobody orders her to go to bed and no one forces her to take cod liver oil, when she likes candy more.\n\nBeside the house, there is another house in which there live two well-behaved siblings named Annika and Tommy. They first meet Pippi when she is out on the road in the morning, walking backwards. They ask her about this and she answers that a person can walk any way she wants to in a free country. She continues to tell them that in Egypt, all the people walk backwards and nobody thinks it is strange. After they ask her whether she actually has been to Egypt, she answers that she has and that in Farthest India, the people have an even stranger way of walking: they walk on their hands. At this, they accuse her of lying and then she admits that she was lying and that in the Congo nobody speaks the truth.\n\nAfterwards, she invites them over to her house, where they eat pancakes and Pippi tells them about Brazilians, who always have eggs in their hair. Then she shows them some of the things which she and her father brought home from their journeys around the world. From these, Pippi gives them some gifts: Tommy gets a small knife with a handle of pearl and Annika gets a ring with a green stone. Annika and Tommy then go back to their home.\n", "id": "305277", "title": "Pippi Longstocking (book)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305278", "text": "Ringstraße\n\nThe Ringstraße (also known as \"Ring\") is a street in Austria's capital Vienna. It goes around the first district in almost the shape of a circle. The street is 5.2 km long and is divided into nine sections. It is one of the main sights in Vienna.\n\nOn December 20th, 1857, emperor Franz Joseph I. ordered to destroy the old city walls and to build a street which should show the glory of the Habsburg Empire. The old walls were a traffic block because in 1850, the suburbs became part of the city as districts II. till IX. The order of the emperor outlined the exact size of the boulevard, as well as the geographical positions and functions of the new buildings. The only building which was erected by the city was the Town Hall.\n\nDuring the following years, a large number of important public and private buildings were erected. Nobility and bourgeoisie began to build mansions along the street. Most of them were built in the Ringstraßenstyle, which mainly quotes older styles.\n\nThe Ringstraße has several sections. It surrounds the central area of Vienna on all sides, except for the northeast, where its place is taken by the \"Franz-Josephs-Kai\", the street going along the \"Donaukanal\" (a branch of the Danube). Starting from the \"Ringturm\" at the northern end of the Franz-Josephs-Kai, the sections are:\n\n", "id": "305278", "title": "Ringstraße"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305283", "text": "Otto Wagner\n\nOtto Koloman Wagner (13 July 1841 – 11 April 1918) was an Austrian architect and urban planner. He influenced the development of his hometown Vienna at the turn from the 19th to the 20th century. He also was the architect of important landmarks.\nOtto Wagner was born in the Penzing district of Vienna. He studied in Berlin and Vienna. After work as brick layer he started as architect. His first buildings were in the historism style. In the late 1880s he became a proponent of the realism style. In 1890 he designed a city plan for Vienna but only the railway netwerk Wiener Stadtbahn was built. In 1894 he became Professor of Architecture at the Academy of Fine Arts Vienna.In 1896 he published a textbook entitled Modern Architecture in which he wrote down his ideas about the role of the architect, it based on his first lecture in the Academy. He called for an architecture based on modern materials and modern construction methods. In 1897, he joined Gustav Klimt, Joseph Maria Olbrich, Josef Hoffmann and Koloman Moser shortly after they founded the \"Vienna Secession\" artistic group. He died in 1918 in Vienna.\n\nDigitized books from the architecture collection of AMS Historica, the digital library of the University of Bologna. \n", "id": "305283", "title": "Otto Wagner"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305292", "text": "Ninette de Valois\n\nDame Ninette de Valois OM CH DBE FRAD FISTD (6 June 1898 – 8 March 2001) was an Irish-born British dancer, teacher, choreographer and director of classical ballet. \n\nMost notably, she danced professionally with Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, reaching the rank of soloist. After Diaghilev's death she established what became The Royal Ballet. This became one of the foremost ballet companies of the 20th century and one of the leading ballet companies in the world today. She also established the Birmingham Royal Ballet and the Royal Ballet School. She is widely regarded as one of the most influential figures in the history of ballet and as the 'godmother' of English ballet.\n\nBefore de Valois there had been no permanent ballet company in London, though there were a few quality dance schools which offered shows from time to time. The company which became the Royal Ballet started as the Vic-Wells Ballet, founded by de Valois in 1931. It had Anton Dolin as its Guest dancer. In 1933 the company was joined by Alicia Markova, who was appointed \"prima ballerina\". At this point de Valois retired as a stage performer, and continued as Director. Her reputation was now made as an organiser and teacher. She was also a choreographer, with a number of ballets to her credit. Her ballet \"Checkmate\" is still danced today. \n\n'Madame', as she was called by everyone, attracted great talents to the company. She engaged Frederick Ashton as Principal Choreographer and Constant Lambert as Musical Director, in 1935. Tamara Karsavina was a dance advisor. Eventually the company included many of the most famous ballet dancers in the world, including Margot Fonteyn, Svetlana Beriosova, and, most sensationally, Rudolf Nureyev. \n\nAs a manager, she had a fearsome reputation. She would stand for no misbehaviour, or for anything which stood in the way of the dance. One younger dancer said:\n\nThe Vic-Wells was given a Royal Charter in 1956, and became the Royal Ballet. Madame was its first Director. She retired from the Royal Ballet in 1963, but was a big influence for years. She was appointed a Companion of Honour, and awarded the Order of Merit. Madame died at the age of 102 in 2001.\n", "id": "305292", "title": "Ninette de Valois"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305298", "text": "A Wrinkle in Time\n\nA Wrinkle in Time is a science fiction and fantasy novel by Madeleine L'Engle. It was first published in 1962. The book won the 1963 Newbery Medal and the 1965 Sequoyah Book Award. It also won the Lewis Carroll Shelf Award in 1964.\n\n\"A Wrinkle in Time\" is the story of Meg Murry, a high-school-aged girl who is transported on an adventure through time and space with her younger brother Charles Wallace and her friend Calvin O'Keefe to rescue her father, a gifted scientist, from the evil forces that hold him prisoner on another planet. At the beginning of the book, Meg is a homely, awkward, but loving girl, troubled by personal insecurities and her concern for her father, who has been missing for over a year. The plot begins with the arrival of Mrs. Whatsit at the Murry house on a dark and stormy evening. Although she looks like an eccentric tramp, she is actually a celestial creature with the ability to read Meg's thoughts. She startles Meg's mother by reassuring her of the existence of a tesseract--a sort of \"wrinkle\" in space and time. It is through this wrinkle that Meg and her companions will travel through the fifth dimension in search of Mr. Murry.\n\nOn the afternoon following Mrs. Whatsit's visit, Meg and Charles Wallace walk over to Mrs. Whatsit's cabin. On the way, they meet Calvin O'Keefe, a popular boy in Meg's school whom Charles considers a kindred spirit. The three children learn from Mrs. Whatsit and her friends Mrs. Who and Mrs. Which that the universe is threatened by a great evil called the Dark Thing and taking the form of a giant cloud, engulfing the stars around it. Several planets have already succumbed to this evil force, including Camazotz, the planet on which Mr. Murry is imprisoned.\n\nThe three Mrs. W's transport the children to Camazotz and instruct them to remain always in each other's company while on their quest for Mr. Murry. On Camazotz, all objects and places appear exactly alike because the whole planet must conform to the terrifying rhythmic pulsation of IT, a giant disembodied brain. Charles Wallace tries to fight IT with his exceptional intelligence but is overpowered by the evil and becomes a robot-like creature mouthing the words with which IT infuses him. Under the control of IT, Charles leads Meg and Calvin to Mr. Murry and together they confront IT. However, they, too, are unable to withstand IT's power; they escape only at the last minute, when Mr. Murry appears and seizes Meg and Calvin, \"tessering\" away with them (traveling via another tesseract) to a gray planet called Ixchel inhabited by tall, furry beasts who care for the travelers. Charles Wallace remains possessed by IT, a prisoner of Camazotz.\n\nOn Planet Ixchel the three Mrs. W's appear once again, and Meg realizes that she must travel alone back to Camazotz to rescue her brother. Mrs. Which tells her that she has one thing that IT does not have, and this will be her weapon against the evil. However, Meg must discover this weapon for herself. When standing in the presence of IT, Meg realizes what this is: her ability to love. Thus, by concentrating on her love for Charles Wallace, she is able to restore him to his true identity. Meg releases Charles from IT's clutches and tessers with him through time and space, landing in her twin brothers' vegetable garden on Earth, where her father and Calvin stand waiting. The family joyously reunites, and the Mrs. W's visit the happy scene en route to further travels.\n\nMeg Murry -  The book's heroine and protagonist, a homely, awkward, but loving high school student who is sent on an adventure through time and space with her brother and her friend Calvin to rescue her father from the evil force that is attempting to take over the universe. Meg's greatest faults are her anger, impatience, and lack of self-confidence, but she channels and overcomes them, ultimately emerging victorious.\n\nCharles Wallace Murry  -  Meg's extraordinarily intelligent five-year-old younger brother who is capable of reading minds and understanding other creatures in a way that none of the other Murry children can.\n\nCalvin O'Keefe -  A popular boy and talented athlete in Meg's high school who accompanies the Murry children on their adventure. Calvin comes from a large family that does not really care about him, but he nonetheless demonstrates a strong capacity for love and affection, and shows a burgeoning romantic interest in Meg.\n\nIT -  The disembodied brain that controls all the inhabitants of Camazotz with its revolting, pulsing rhythm. IT, identified with the Black Thing, is the embodiment of evil on this planet.\n\nThe Black Thing  -  A cold and dark shadow that symbolizes the evil forces that Meg, Calvin, and Charles Wallace must fight against in order to rescue their father.\n\nMrs. Whatsit -  The youngest of the three celestial beings who accompany the children on their adventure. Meg initially comes to know Mrs. Whatsit as the tramp who stole bed-sheets from their neighbors and then sought shelter from a storm in the Murrys' warm kitchen. She later learns that Mrs. Whatsit gave up her existence as a star in order to fight the Dark Thing.\n\nMrs. Which -  The oldest of the three celestial beings who accompany the children on their adventure. Mrs. Which has difficulty materializing and is usually just a shimmering gleam. Her unconventional speech is usually rendered in capitalized words, with the first consonants repeated several times.\n\nMrs. Who -  The second of the three celestial beings who accompany the children on their adventure. She usually speaks in quotations from famous thinkers and writers because she finds it too difficult to craft her own sentences. When the children first meet Mrs. Who, she is sewing sheets in the haunted house in their neighborhood.\n\nMr. Murry  -  Meg's father and a physicist who works for a top-secret government agency on experiments with travel through space-time in the fifth dimension. In trying to tesser to Mars (i.e., travel through a tesseract, or wrinkle in time), he is captured and imprisoned on the dark planet of Camazotz. When the plot begins, no one on Earth has heard from him for over a year.\n\nAunt Beast -  This tall, furry, many-tentacled inhabitant of the planet Ixchel cares lovingly for Meg after she is nearly destroyed by the Black Thing. Aunt Beast, like all the creatures on Ixchel, lacks eyes and has no concept of light or vision.\n\nHappy Medium -  A jolly, clairvoyant woman in a silk turban and satin gown who shows the children a vision of Earth through her crystal ball. The Medium is reluctant to show them anything unpleasant, but the Mrs. W's insist that they see what they are up against.\n\nMan with the Red Eyes  -  A robot-like inhabitant of Camazotz who tries to hypnotize Meg, Charles Wallace, and Calvin in the CENTRAL Central Intelligence building. The Man, like all of Camazotz, is totally controlled by the power of IT.\n\nMrs. Murry  -  Meg's mother and an experimental biologist who works out of a lab in the Murry home. She is at once a brilliant scientist and a loving mother who cooks meals for her family on her Bunsen burner. She also writes loving letters to her absent husband every night.\n\nMr. Jenkins -  Meg's cold and unfeeling high-school principal who calls her \"belligerent and uncooperative\" and implies that her family is in denial about Mr. Murry's true whereabouts.\n\nMrs. Buncombe -  The wife of the constable in Meg's hometown, who has twelve bed-sheets stolen from her at the beginning of the novel.\n\nSandy and Dennys Murry  -  Meg's athletic and socially successful ten-year-old twin brothers who encourage her to let them fight off the bullies who make fun of Charles Wallace. The twins do not accompany Meg and Charles Wallace on their interplanetary adventure.\n\n", "id": "305298", "title": "A Wrinkle in Time"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305300", "text": "Calibre\n\nA caliber or calibre is the diameter of the barrel of a gun. For example, a rifle with a diameter of 0.22 inch is a .22 cal.\n", "id": "305300", "title": "Calibre"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305308", "text": "Sandro Rosell\n\nAlexandre Rosell i Feli or Sandro Rosell (born March 6, 1964 in Barcelona) is the current chairman of FC Barcelona. He was the vice-president from 2003 to 2005.\n", "id": "305308", "title": "Sandro Rosell"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305316", "text": "Bitterness\n\nBitter, one of the five basic tastes.\n\nCommon bitter foods and beverages are the coffee, pure chocolate, beer, citrus peel and escarole. Quinine is also known for its bitter taste and is found in tonic water.\n\n", "id": "305316", "title": "Bitterness"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305321", "text": "Rocket candy\n\nRocket candy is a type of fuel that pushes model rockets. The fuel burns and pushes air out of the rocket's nozzle (the narrowest part of the motor), which pushes the rocket in a forward direction. Rocket candy is not really a type of candy. It is made of sugar, but it is used to power rockets. Rocket candy is made of three different parts. The three parts are the fuel, the part that uses oxygen (air) to make the fuel burn more completely, and the extra chemicals. The fuel is made of a sugar. Sucrose is the most commonly used type of sugar. Sucrose is known as table sugar. The most common part that uses oxygen to make the fuel burn more completely is potassium nitrate (KNO). This part is also called an oxidizer. The extra chemicals can be many different things. They can change the speed of the fuel burning. Extra chemicals can also make the liftoff and flight more exciting and interesting to watch. A normal rocket candy ‘recipe’ is made of 65% oxidizer and 35% fuel. \n\nRocket candy is made in different ways. One of these ways is ‘dry compression’. For dry compression, the rocket candy does not need to be heated. The parts need to be ground into small particles. Then the mixture is packed into the motor. Another way to make rocket candy is called ‘dry heating’. Dry heating does not actually melt the KNO (chemical used as the oxidizer), but it melts the sugar and then the KNO is mixed into the sugar. There is also a third way of making rocket candy called ‘dissolving and heating’. In dissolving and heating, the mixture of fuel ingredients is heated, and both the oxidizer and the fuel are melted and then combine together. \n\nRocket candy should never be made right above a flame. This is for safety reasons. If the mixture of ingredients is heated over direct heat, it could explode. It could also cause the fuel to be weaker. Making rocket candy in a microwave oven is also dangerous. This can cause the fuel to catch on fire. Rocket candy catches on fire very easily. Therefore, it should be made in small amounts. It should also be made outside or in another safe place. One should also use safety eye glasses.\n\nRocket candy does not perform as well as some other kinds of fuel used in model rockets. The total amount of power is lower. The amount of power based on the amount of fuel is also lower. However, rocket candy costs a lot less to make than many other fuels.\n\nRocket candy is made of three main parts. It is made out of the fuel, the oxidizer, and the extra chemicals. The fuel is the part that burns. When it burns, it makes hot gases that move quickly out of the rocket motor. These quickly moving gases push the rocket as they exit the motor. The oxidizer helps to add oxygen, which the fuel needs to burn. The extra chemicals can do a few things. Some can speed up the burning. Some can also make the fuel burn more completely. Some extra chemicals make the rocket look better when it is launched. They can add sparks and flames to liftoff. They can also add smoke when the rocket flies.\n\nMany different sugars can be used as the fuel for rocket candy. Sucrose, which is the sugar used in home kitchens, is the most common type of sugar used. Sorbitol, a common sugar substitute, is also used. Sorbitol makes the rocket candy break less easily. It also causes the fuel to burn more slowly. Fructose and glucose are harder to use. They make the rocket candy more likely to explode. Fructose and glucose do not have to be heated as much. This makes preparation easier. There are more sugars that can be used. They are not as well known, including erythritol, xylitol, lactitol, maltitol, or mannitol. \n\nThe oxidizer helps there be more oxygen in the rocket candy when the fuel is burning. The most common oxidizer is a chemical called potassium nitrate. Its chemical formula is KNO. Other oxidizers can be used instead. Potassium nitrate can be bought from stores that carry garden supplies. \n\nThere are two problems that people often have when they use potassium nitrate. The most important thing is to make sure that the potassium nitrate used is pure potassium nitrate. It is possible to buy potassium nitrate. However, potassium nitrate for sale may not be pure potassium nitrate. Another important thing about the oxidizer is the size of the particles. Many people who make rocket candy have an exact size that they want the potassium nitrate to be. This can be done using a coffee grinder. \n\nExtra chemicals are often added to rocket candy. They are used to change the way the fuel burns. These extra chemicals can make the rocket candy burn faster or slower. Some are used to change the color of the flame. Other chemicals are used to make smoke when the rocket flies. Some extra chemicals are used to change the way the fuel feels and acts. They can make the fuel less likely to break. They can also make the fuel more like a flowing liquid. This can make it easier to put the rocket candy into the motor. \n\nPeople use many different extra chemicals. These are just the ones that are used the most. Metal oxides are one group of extra chemicals. These make the rocket candy burn faster. Metal oxides work best at levels from 1 to 5 percent. This means between one and five grams of extra chemical for every one hundred grams in the fuel. The most common metal oxide is called iron oxide. The most common type of iron oxide is red iron oxide. There are also other colors. Red is the most easy to buy. There is also yellow, brown, and black iron oxide. \n\nAnother extra chemical that is sometimes added to rocket candy is carbon. Carbon is found in charcoal or graphite. It is sometimes used as a fuel. It is used more often as an extra chemical. It makes the rocket leave a smoke trail in the sky. When the fuel burns, it makes heat. The heat usually goes to the case of the motor. The carbon keeps some of the heat in the fuel instead. \n\nA metal called titanium is sometimes used as an extra chemical. It is added in flakes to the rocket candy. Titanium makes the rocket make sparks and flames when it is launched.\n\nRocket candy is normally made with 65% oxidizer and 35% fuel. This has a little more fuel than one needs. This way allows the rocket candy to be more liquid when it is melted. Extra chemicals can take the place some of the fuel. When extra chemicals are added the recipe can change. It might change to 65% oxidizer, 25% fuel, and 10% extra chemicals. These are not the only combinations that work. There are many different combinations that will still make a rocket fly. \n\nThere are a number of different ways to make rocket candy. Most of the ways include heating the rocket candy. The different ways to make rocket candy are called: dry compressed, dry heated, and dissolved and heated. \n\nIn dry compression, the sugar and potassium nitrate are chopped. They should be ground as small as possible. Some people use a mortar and pestle to grind them. Others use a coffee grinder. Then they are mixed. They can be mixed in something called a ball mill or a tumbler. These machines make sure that the two are mixed completely. Then the mixture is pressed into the motor tube. Most people who are serious about experiments do not use this method. People should think carefully before they choose this method. \n\nAnother way to make rocket candy is called dry heating. This is more common than dry compression. First, the potassium nitrate is ground or milled. It needs to be made into a powder. Then the potassium nitrate is mixed with powdered sugar in a pot. When the heat is turned on, the sugar melts. However, this method does not actually melt the potassium nitrate. Potassium nitrate needs to be very hot before it melts. Its melting temperature is 613 degrees Fahrenheit. So instead of melting, the grains of potassium nitrate are coated with the melted sugar. \n\nDissolving and heating is another way to make rocket candy. James Yawn is a well known person who experiments on rockets. He uses dissolving and heating. This method completely combines both the sugar and the potassium nitrate. First, the potassium nitrate and sugar are placed in a pot. Then a little bit of water is added. The sugar and the potassium nitrate combine with the water and make a liquid. When this happens, you cannot see the particles anymore. This is called dissolving. Then the pot is heated. It is heated until the water is hot enough to become a gas and leave the mixture. The mixture will go through several steps. First it will boil. Then it will bubble and ‘spit’. Spitting means that the fuel might splatter. After that it becomes creamy. Dissolving and heating is good for several reasons. The potassium nitrate and sugar do not have to be powder. This is because they both end up together as part of a liquid. This way to make rocket candy also means that the person preparing the fuel has more time to pack it into the motors. \n\nPerformance of a model rocket is shown by two or three things:\n1. Highest force: How much force the gases make when they move out of the rocket motor is different at different times. People often want to know what is the highest force a rocket motor makes. Highest force is measured in Newtons (N).\n2. Impulse: Impulse is a measurement of how much force a rocket motor makes, and for how long. A motor that makes a low force for a long time can sometimes have a higher impulse than a motor that makes a high force for a short time. Impulse is measured in Newtons times seconds (N*s).\n3. Specific Impulse: If a motor has more fuel, then it will have a higher impulse. There is a way to find out if one fuel makes the same impulse as another fuel. When the number for impulse is divided by the number for the weight of the fuel that was burned, it is called 'specific impulse.' To find out how much fuel was burned, the rocket motor must be weighed before and after firing. The specific impulse can be compared for different fuels and different sizes of rocket motors. Specific impulse is measured in seconds (s).\nSugar based rocket fuels have an average I(specific impulse) of between 115 and 130 seconds. Compare that to the average I of an APCP (Ammonium perchlorate composite fuel), which is 150 to 180 seconds. The most force that sorbitol and KNO based fuel with a typical 65:35 ratio can make is 110 N, an I of between 110 and 125 seconds, and may have an average force of about 40 N. However, sorbitol and KNO rockets with extra chemicals have been recorded as having average forces of up to 100N, total impulses of up to 735 Ns, and specific impulses of up to 128 seconds.\n\nXylitol and KNO based rocket fuels can make a specific impulse of ~ 100 seconds and can have a total impulse of up to 230Ns.\n\nDextrose and KNO based fuels can make an average force of about 80N, a total impulse of 144 Ns, and an I of 118 seconds.\nRocket candy is also sometimes called “caramel candy”. Rocket candy was used in some of the model rockets created by Homer Hickam. He describes these in his best-selling, true book, \"Rocket Boys\". \n\nRocket candy might have been made well known to beginning rocket enthusiasts by Lt. Col. Charles M. Parkin in a long magazine (Electronics Illustrated) article. It continued over several issues. The article was published in July 1958. Parkin wrote about how to make rocket candy by using an electric frying pan. Parkin also wrote a book. It was called \"The Rocket Handbook for Amateurs\". It was published in 1959. \n\nToday there is a program called the Sugar Shot to Space Program. This program is trying to make a very powerful rocket powered by rocket candy. The goal is to get this kind of rocket into space. Space is defined as 100 kilometers high. This is the same as 60 miles from the earth’s surface. One of the rockets is called the “Double Sugar Shot rocket”. It has reached 33 kilometers, or twenty miles from the earth’s surface. This means that it is one third of the way to space. The “Mini Sugar Shot rocket” is another rocket. It is a smaller version of the “Extreme Sugar Shot rocket”. The “Mini Sugar Shot Rocket” reached a height of about seven miles. Then it exploded. The “Extreme Sugar Shot rocket” is the rocket that might get into space. It is not yet finished being built.\n\n", "id": "305321", "title": "Rocket candy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305325", "text": "Comet Shoemaker–Levy 9\n\nComet Shoemaker-Levy 9 was a comet. It broke apart and crashed into Jupiter, in July 1994. The event was special because people could see, for the first time, how objects in the Solar System, outside Earth, collided. It caused a large amount of coverage in the media. The comet was carefully watched by astronomers worldwide. The crash gave new information about Jupiter. It also showed up its role in reducing space debris in the inner Solar System. The name came out of the discovers' last names.\n\nThe comet was discovered by astronomers Carolyn and Eugene M. Shoemaker and David Levy on March 24, 1993. It was found in a picture taken by the Schmidt telescope at the Palomar Observatory, in California. When it was discovered, it was orbiting Jupiter. It was the first comet seen to be orbiting a planet. Scientists think that it had been orbiting the planet for 20 - 30 years before its discovery. \n\nCalculations showed that its unusual broken up form was due to a previous closer approach to Jupiter in July 1992. At that time, the orbit of Shoemaker-Levy 9 passed within Jupiter's Roche limit. Jupiter's tidal forces had acted to pull the comet apart. The comet was later observed as a series of pieces up to in diameter. These fragments collided with Jupiter's southern hemisphere between July 16 and July 22, 1994. The pieces were moving at a speed of approximately 60 km/s. The impact scars were more easily seen than the Great Red Spot and they stayed for many months.\n", "id": "305325", "title": "Comet Shoemaker–Levy 9"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305327", "text": "International League\n\nThe International League (IL) is a minor league baseball league based in the Eastern United States. Like the Pacific Coast League and the Mexican League, the International League plays at the Triple-A level. It was so-named because it had teams in both the United States, Canada, and Cuba. However, all of the league's teams are now based in the U.S.\n\n", "id": "305327", "title": "International League"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305330", "text": "Cigerxwîn\n\nCigerxwîn or Cegerxwîn (\"pronounced Jigar Khwin\") (1903 - October 1984) was a renowned Kurdish polymath, and nationalist.\n", "id": "305330", "title": "Cigerxwîn"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305331", "text": "Division by two\n\nIn mathematics, division by two is when a number is divided by two. Some cultures, like the ancient Egyptians, thought this was a different operation than division. Some mathematicians up until the 16th century (1500-1599) thought this too. Today division by two is handled specially in modern computer programming.\n\nDivision by two is also called halving, mediation, and dimidiation.\n\nIn a binary number system, there are only two digits: 0 and 1. All other numbers are represented with those two digits. For example, \"one\" is 1, \"two\" is 10, \"three\" is 11, \"four\" is 100, and so on. Most of the time people use a number system with ten digits (the numbers 0 through 9.) This is called the decimal number system.\n\nDivision by two in binary is very easy. It is done by dropping the last digit on the right of the number. This is called a \"bit shift operation.\" For example, if we performed a bit shift operation on the binary number 100, we'd get 10. Since binary 100 is decimal 4, and binary 10 is decimal 2, this makes sense.\n\nAnother example is performing a bit shift operation on 1101. This would leave us with 110, but we dropped a 1 from the end, not a zero. This also makes sense because 1101 in binary is 13 in decimal. If we divide 13 by 2, we get 6 with a remainder of 1 (we have 1 left over.)\n\nComputers use the binary number system to store information. Information is broken up into tiny pieces called \"bits\". Each bit is either a 0 or a 1. Because of this, the fastest and easiest way for a computer to do division is by a bit shift operations -- division by two. Replacing regular division with bit shifts is a way to do program optimization. (Program optimization is trying to make a program faster and more efficient.)\n\nIn computer programming, the symbol codice_1 is sometimes used to show a bit shift operation. In Java, we can ask the computer to do the problem formula_1 by writing codice_2. This is the same as writing codice_3. Both of these versions will give us the answer codice_4. There is a problem when trying to do something a problem like formula_2. In Java, if we write codice_5, the computer will tell us the answer is codice_6. But if we try to do codice_7, the computer will say the answer is codice_8. This will happen every time we try to do a bit shift operation with one negative number. The reason for this is complicated, and has to do with the way negative binary numbers are saved by the computer.\n\nEven though it is fastest for computers to do division using bit shift operations, most computer code does not do it this way. This is because programmers want their programs to be \"portable\" and \"readable\". Portable means that a program can be run on many different kinds of computers and operating systems. Readable means that the source code is easy to read and understand. Most of the time, the compiler (a program that changes source code into 0's and 1's that the computer can understand) will change the division into bit shifts automatically.\n", "id": "305331", "title": "Division by two"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305337", "text": "List of ice hockey leagues\n\nThis is a list of ice hockey leagues, both professional and amateur, from around the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"(*) Quebec Junior \"AA\" is roughly equal to Ontario Junior \"B\"\"\n\n\n\"(*) Quebec Junior \"A\" is roughly equal to Ontario Junior \"C\"\"\n\n\"(*) Quebec Junior \"B\" is roughly equal to Ontario Junior \"D\"\"\n\n\n\n\"Note: The Northeast-10 sponsors a championship for its members that play ice hockey, but the NCAA doesn't currently sponsor a national championship at the Division II level.\"\n\n\"Note: there are also many independent teams in all three ACHA divisions in addition to the many within the hockey conferences and leagues.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLeagues for disabled hockey players\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDefunct\nJapan Ice Hockey League\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(Leagues involve teams from both Europe and Asia) \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDefunct\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRiksserien (Highest league, 8 teams.)\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDefunct Leagues\n\nEnglish Ice Hockey Association Women's Leagues\n\n\n\n", "id": "305337", "title": "List of ice hockey leagues"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305339", "text": "Mahmud Bayazidi\n\nMahmud Bayazidi (\"Kurdish: Mehmûdê Bazîdî\"), 1797–1859, was a Kurdish philosopher and polymath from Bayazid in the Ottoman Empire. Bayazid is now Doğubeyazıt in Ağrı Province, Turkey.\n", "id": "305339", "title": "Mahmud Bayazidi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305348", "text": "John Goodman\n\nJohn Stephen Goodman (born June 20, 1952) is an American actor. He was born in St. Louis, Missouri. He lives in New Orleans, Louisiana. He was best known for being on \"Roseanne\", for which he won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor in 1993.\n\nHe married Annabeth Herzog in 1989. They have a daughter.\n", "id": "305348", "title": "John Goodman"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305362", "text": "Imprinting\n\nImprinting is a term used in ethology and psychology to describe a special type of automatic learning.\n\nIt usually occurs early in life, during a critical period. The animal fixes on a particular signal (sound or sight), which is said to be 'imprinted' onto the subject. The process of imprinting is caused by an inherited instinct.\n\nThe best-known form of imprinting is the imprinting of the newly-hatched (or born) on one or both parent. Its function is to keep the young near their parent(s) during the early learning period. It is most obvious in birds, such as ducks and geese, after the fledglings have left the nest. They imprint on their parents and then follow them around, often in a long line, on land and on water. \n\nIt was first reported in domestic chickens, by the 19th-century amateur biologist Douglas Spalding. It was rediscovered by the early ethologist Oskar Heinroth, and studied extensively and popularised by his disciple Konrad Lorenz, and by Niko Tinbergen. \n\nLorenz showed how incubator-hatched geese would imprint on the first suitable moving stimulus they saw within what a 'critical period' of 13–16 hours after hatching. For example, the goslings would imprint on Lorenz himself (to be more specific, on his wading boots). He is often shown in photographs being followed by a gaggle of geese who had imprinted on him. \n\nIn child development, the term is used to refer to the process by which a baby learns who its mother and father are. The process is recognised as beginning in the womb, when the unborn baby starts to recognise its parents' voices.\n\nThe filial imprinting of birds was a primary technique used to create the movie \"Winged Migration (Le Peuple Migrateur)\", which contains footage of migratory birds in flight. The birds imprinted on handlers, who wore yellow jackets and honked horns constantly. The birds were then trained to fly along with a variety of aircraft, usually ultralights.\n", "id": "305362", "title": "Imprinting"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305364", "text": "De Dion-Bouton\n\nDe Dion-Bouton is a French motor car company that began making cars in 1882. The company was started by Count Albert De Dion, Georges Bouton and Charles Trepardoux. Their first cars were steam powered and they made their first petrol internal combustion engine car in 1895.\n\nA four-wheeled De Dion-Bouton et Trepardoux, a steam-powered car, said to be the oldest car in the world that still going, sold in 2007. The car had belonged to Count Albert De Dion. Built in 1884, it has a top speed of 35 miles per hour.\n", "id": "305364", "title": "De Dion-Bouton"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305365", "text": "Vienna Secession\n\nThe Vienna Secession (also known as the \"Union of Austrian Artists\", or \"Vereinigung Bildender Künstler Österreichs\") was formed in 1897 by a group of Austrian artists who left the Association of Austrian Artists, housed in the Vienna Künstlerhaus due to its conservatism. This movement included painters, sculptors, and architects. The first president of the Secession was Gustav Klimt, and Rudolf von Alt was made honorary president.\n\nIt was founded on 3 April 1897 by artists Gustav Klimt, Koloman Moser, Josef Hoffmann, Joseph Maria Olbrich, Max Kurzweil, and others. Although the architect Otto Wagner is one of the most important members he was not a founding member. The first exhibition was held in 1898. In 1898, the group's exhibition house was built near Karlsplatz. It was designed by Joseph Maria Olbrich, the exhibition building soon became known simply as \"the Secession\" (die Sezession). Their work was also published in a magazin called \"Ver sacrum\".\n\n1903 Josef Hoffmann and Koloman Moser founded the Wiener Werkstätten, a union of artists who wanted to reform the applied arts (arts and crafts). 1905 Klimt and other artists left the group due to different opinions about art.\n", "id": "305365", "title": "Vienna Secession"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305374", "text": "Ken Olsen\n\nKenneth Harry Olsen (February 20, 1926 — February 6, 2011) was an American engineer and entrepreneur. He started Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC) in 1957 with Harlan Anderson.\n\nOlsen was born in Bridgeport, Connecticut. He grew up in nearby Stratford, Connecticut. His father's parents came from Norway and his mother's parents came from from Sweden. Olsen began his career working summers in a machine shop. Olsen fixed radios in his basement as a child.\n\nHe served in the United States Navy between 1944 and 1946. Then Olsen studied at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). He earned a Bachelor of Science in 1950 and a Master of Science degree in 1952. Both degrees were in electrical engineering.\n\nWhile he was studying at MIT, the Office of Naval Research of the United States Department of the Navy asked Olsen to help build a computerized flight simulator. Also while at MIT, Olsen directed a project to make the first transistorized research computer. Olsen also worked as an engineer at MIT Lincoln Laboratory on the TX-2 project.\n\nIn 1957, Ken Olsen and Harlan Anderson, decided to start their own company. Harlan was also at MIT. They asked American Research and Development Corporation (ARDC) for money. ARDC was an early venture capital company started by Georges Doriot. In the 1960s, Olsen received patents for a saturable switch, a diode transformer gate circuit, an improved version of magnetic core memory, and the line printer buffer. Their company's headquarters was in an old wool mill in Maynard, Massachusetts. In 1992, the company had their best sales of $14,000,000,000. DEC was sold to Compaq for $9,600,000,000 in 1999. It later became a part of Hewlett-Packard.\n\nKen Olsen was known throughout his career for his fatherly management style and for supporting new ideas in engineering. He thought new ideas and technical excellence were very important. He used engineering matrix management. This management approach is used throughout many industries today.\n\nHe was awarded the Vermilye Medal in 1980.\n\nIn 1986, \"Fortune Magazine\" named Olsen \"America's most successful entrepreneur\", and the same year he received the IEEE Engineering Leadership Recognition Award.\n\nIn 1987 he gave the first of his \"snake oil speeches\". Some people thought he was talking about the \"Unix Conspiracy\". Olsen believed VMS was a better operating system for DEC customers than UNIX. He said why VMS was good. Yet, he did approve and encourage a plan inside DEC to make a UNIX for VAX computers based on BSD. This version of UNIX was called Ultrix. However, Ultrix never got good support from within DEC.\n\nOlsen retired from DEC in 1992. He then became the chairman of Advanced Modular Solutions. Olsen was also a major contributor to The Family, a religious and political organization. Olsen also was a trustee of Gordon College in Wenham, Massachusetts. The college named a science center after him.\n\nOlsen died while in hospice care in Indianapolis, Indiana on February 6, 2011, aged 84. The cause of death was not announced. His family also did not speak publicly about how he died.\n\nTwo things Olsen said are often repeated but without information to help people understand what he really meant.\n\n\n\n", "id": "305374", "title": "Ken Olsen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305376", "text": "Debbie Wasserman Schultz\n\nDebbie Wasserman Schultz (born September 27, 1966) is the U.S. Representative for since 2005. She was the Chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, the leader the Democratic Party from 2011 until she resigned in 2016. From 1993 to 2004, she served in the Florida House of Representatives and the Florida Senate.\n\nHer district covers parts of Broward and Miami-Dade counties. Her district includes the cities of Fort Lauderdale and Miami Beach.\n\nShe was born Deborah Wasserman in Forest Hills, Queens, New York City. She grew up on Long Island. She received a Bachelor of Arts in 1988 and a Master of Arts with certificate in political campaigning in 1990, both in Political Science, from the University of Florida, in Gainesville.\n\nAt the University of Florida, Schultz was in student government. She was President of the Student Senate as well as founder and President of the Rawlings Area Council Government. She was also a member of the Omicron Delta Kappa honor society, the James C. Grimm chapter of the National Residence Hall Honorary, and the union Graduate Assistants United. She served as President of the Graduate Student Council. She said that student politics developed her \"love for politics and the political process.\"\n\nIn 1988 Schultz became an aide to Peter Deutsch at the beginning of his state legislative career. In 1992, Deutsch won election to the United States House of Representatives, which made his Florida post vancant. Schultz recalled getting a call from Deutsch at the time: \"It was really amazing. He called me at home one day in the middle of the legislative session and he said, 'You could run in my race, your house is in my district.'\" She had lived in the district for only three years. Schultz then won 53 percent of the vote in a six-way Democratic primary and avoided a runoff. She went on to win the general election and succeeded Deutsch in Florida's House of Representatives. At the age of 26, she became the youngest female legislator in Florida's history.\n\nShe served in the Florida State House of Representatives for eight years. State term limits required Schultz to leave the House. In addition to her work as a state legislator, she became an adjunct instructor of political science at Broward Community College. She also worked as a public policy curriculum specialist at Nova Southeastern University. She was elected to the Florida State Senate in 2000. She was considered one of the most liberal members of Florida's state legislature. She supported legislation requiring gender price parity for dry cleaning. She supported bills to require that an equal number of men and women were appointed to state boards. She pushed through several bills including the Florida Residential Swimming Pool Safety Act and one creating a Children's Services Council for Broward County. The Save The Manatee Club gave Schultz an award for her work in the state senate to protect manatees.\nShe serves on the following committees:\n\nShe is Chief Deputy Whip for the House Democrats. Schultz is a member of the New Democrat Coalition.\n\nSchultz was appointed to the Democratic Steering and Policy Committee in her first term in Congress. During the 2006 elections, she raised over seventeen million dollars in campaign contributions for her Democratic colleagues. The only two congressmen to raise more money that year were Nancy Pelosi and Rahm Emanuel. Democrats in the House of Representatives chose her to be Chief Deputy Whip. They appointed her to the Appropriations Committee. (This was a very good job for a congresswoman with only two years of experience.)\n\nShe is a member of Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi's \"30 Something\" Working Group, which consists of congressional Democrats under age 40. The group concentrates on issues affecting young people, including Social Security. She also has joined the bipartisan Congressional Cuba Democracy Caucus. According to the \"Congress.org\" 2008 Power Rankings, she was the 24th most powerful member of the House and 22nd most powerful Democratic representative (also most powerful Florida representative).\n\nIn April 2011, Tim Kaine resigned as Democratic National Committee (DNC) Chairman in order to run for the United States Senate. On April 5, 2011, President Barack Obama chose Schultz to succeed Kaine as the 52nd Chairman of the DNC. Between Kaine's resignation and the next DNC meeting, current DNC Vice-Chair Donna Brazile served as the interim Chair of the Democratic National Committee. On May 4, 2011, the DNC met and elected Schultz as its chair. Schultz became the third female DNC chief in history and the first in over 15 years.\n\nOn July 24, 2016, it was announced that she would resign her position as chairperson of the Democratic National Committee following the 2016 Democratic National Convention. Leaked emails provided by WikiLeaks showed Schultz and other members of the DNC staff mocking and attempting to sabotage the presidential campaign of Senator Bernie Sanders in favor of Clinton's campaign. \n\nThe Clinton campaign announced the same day that Wasserman Schultz would act as honorary chair of an effort to elect Democrats across the United States in the 2016 U.S. Presidential election. \n\nSchultz currently lives in Weston outside Fort Lauderdale. She has three children and is married to Steve Schultz. She is an active member of the National Jewish Democratic Council, Planned Parenthood and Hadassah.\n\nIn March 2009, she said that she went through seven surgeries related to breast cancer in 2008, while remaining a member of the House. That year, she promoted efforts for early screening for breast cancer.\n\n\n", "id": "305376", "title": "Debbie Wasserman Schultz"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305377", "text": "Curtin University\n\nCurtin University is the largest university in Australia. Its main campus is in Bentley, Western Australia.\n\nCurtin University was first called the Western Australian Institute of Technology (WAIT), which opened in 1966. But the name was changed to the Curtin University of Technology. In 2010, 'of Technology' was dropped and it is now known just as Curtin University.\n\nIn 2005, both Curtin and Murdoch University considered merging together, but this was later cancelled.\n\nCurtin is split into four \"faculties\", the Centre for Aboriginal studies, Curtin Business school, Humanities, and Science and Engineering.\n\nCurtin has its own bus port, which has many routes run through it, including services from Canning Bridge railway station.\n\n", "id": "305377", "title": "Curtin University"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305383", "text": "Midnight\n\nThe time 12:00 at night, or 24:00 is called midnight. On computer clocks, the day changes to the next day the minute after midnight.\n\nSolar midnight is the opposite of solar noon, which is when the sun is highest in the sky\n\nIn the world, midnight is the start of one day and the end of the last day. It's the dividing point between two days.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, digital clocks and computers usually show 12 a.m. right at midnight. However, people have to remember that any time is actually an instant. The \"a.m.\" shown on clock displays means the 12-hour period after the instant of midnight. So when a clock says \"12:00 a.m.\", midnight has already passed and a new day has started. In other words, 11:59 p.m. shows until midnight; at the instant of midnight, it changes to 12:00. At the same time, the p.m. changes to a.m., but a.m. does not mean the instant of midnight which separates p.m. and a.m.\n", "id": "305383", "title": "Midnight"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305386", "text": "Rottnest Island\n\nRottnest Island (also known as Rotto or just Rottnest) is 18 kilometres from the mainland of Western Australia. It is called Wadjemup by the Noongar tribe, which means \"land across the water\". Rottnest is a popular tourist attaction.\n\nAboriginal people originally occupied Rottnest around 30,000 years ago. The island was originally connected to the mainland, but it eventually became separated with the Indian Ocean, and so it became an island. As Aboriginal people did not have boats, the island had no one living on it until the Europeans arrived. Dutch sailor Willem de Vlamingh named the island \"Rattenest\", meaning \"Rat's nest\". The 'rats' he was referring to was actually a Quokka, a native animal on the island. \n\nAfter the Swan River Colony was established in 1830, Robert Thomson settled on the island with his family. He made a living selling salt, which is naturally found on the island. Before refrigeration, salt was very important, as it kept food fresh.\n\nThe island became a prison for Aboriginals, during the periods of 1838-1849 and 1855-1931. Around 3,700 Aboriginal men and boys were imprisoned for crimes such as spearing livestock, burning the bush and digging vegetables.\n\nRottnest Island was also used during World War I and II. \n\nRottnest is home to the Quokka, and is one of the few places in the world where they live.\n\nRottnest Island is now a very popular tourist destination, due to its beaches, wildlife and natural environment. Nearly 500,000 people visit the island each year, mostly by ferry but others by aircraft (Rottnest has its own airport). The island is looked after by the Rottnest Island Authority (RIA). A fee is charged when people enter the island, which goes to help maintain it.\nMotor vehicles are prohibited on the island, except for use by the RIA, Police or other emergency services. Additionally, only certain individuals are allowed to permanently live on the island. \n\n", "id": "305386", "title": "Rottnest Island"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305407", "text": "Southern Professional Hockey League\n\nThe Southern Professional Hockey League (SPHL) is a low-level professional ice hockey league based in Charlotte, North Carolina, with teams located in the southeastern United States.\n", "id": "305407", "title": "Southern Professional Hockey League"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305408", "text": "Ligue Nord-Américaine de Hockey\n\nThe Ligue Nord-Américaine de Hockey(North American Hockey League) (LNAH) was founded in 2004 and is a low-level professional league based in the Canadian province of Quebec.\n", "id": "305408", "title": "Ligue Nord-Américaine de Hockey"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305409", "text": "Federal Hockey League\n\nThe Federal Hockey League (FHL) is a professional ice hockey league with teams in the Northeastern United States and Ontario.\n", "id": "305409", "title": "Federal Hockey League"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305410", "text": "International Ice Hockey Federation\n\nThe International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) (\"French\": \"Ligue Internationale de Hockey sur Glace\") is the worldwide governing body for ice hockey and in-line hockey. It is based in Zurich, Switzerland, and has 70 members. It is responsible for the management of international ice hockey tournaments, and maintains the IIHF World Ranking.\n\nDespite its worldwide authority, the IIHF has little control of hockey in North America, where the National Hockey League (NHL) is the highest hockey organization. Its base of power rests in Europe with the respective national governing bodies and leagues. Canada (Hockey Canada) and the United States (USA Hockey) are the only members who have their own rulebooks.\n\nDecisions of the IIHF can be appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport in Lausanne, Switzerland.\n\nThe IIHF museum was located within the International Hockey Hall of Fame Museum located in Kingston, Ontario from 1992 to 1997. After terminating the partnership with the International Hockey Hall of Fame, the IIHF signed an agreement with the NHL to house their museum within the Hockey Hall of Fame. In 1998, the IIHF museum relocated to Toronto, Ontario, occupying over within the Hockey Hall of Fame.\n\nAs part of the centennial celebrations of the IIHF's founding, the 2008 IIHF World Championship was held in Canada, the perennial leaders of the sport. This was the first time the championships were hosted in Canada. Russia went on to win the 2008 Championship.\n\nThe main functions of the IIHF are to govern, develop and organize hockey throughout the world. Also to promote friendly relations among the member national associations and to operate in an organized manner for the good order of the sport.\nThe federation may take the necessary measures in order to conduct itself and its affairs in accordance with its statutes, bylaws and regulations as well as in holding a clear jurisdiction in what concerns to ice hockey and in-line hockey at the international level. The IIHF is the body responsible with arranging the sponsorships, license rights, advertising and merchandising in connection with all IIHF competitions.\n\nAnother purpose of the federation is to provide aid in the young players' development and in the development of coaches and game officials. On the other hand, all the events of IIHF are organized by the federation along with establishing and maintaining contact with any other sport federations or sport groups. The IIHF is responsible for processing the international players' transfers. It is also the body that presides over ice hockey in the Olympic Games as well as over all levels of the IIHF World Championships. The federation works in collaboration with local committees when organizing its 25 World Championships, at five different categories.\n\nEven though the IIHF runs the world championships, it is also responsible for the organization of several European club competitions such as the Champions Hockey League or the Continental Cup. With its 100 anniversary, the federation launched a new annual club competition in 2008, the Victoria Cup, named after the Montreal Victoria Skating Rink, the site of the first organized indoor ice hockey match.\nThe federation is governed by the legislative body of the IIHF which is the General Congress along with the executive body, which is the Council. The Congress is entitled to make decisions with regard of the game's rules, the statutes and bylaws in the name of the federation. It is also the body that elects the president and the council or otherwise known as board.\nThe president of the IIHF is basically the representative of the federation. He represents the federation's interests I all external matters and he is also responsible that the decisions are made according to the federation's statues and regulations. The president is assisted by the General Secretary who is also the highest ranked employee of the IIHF.\n\nThe International Ice Hockey Federation was founded on May 15, 1908 at 34 Rue de Provence in Paris, France, as Ligue International de Hockey sur Glace (LIHG). The founders of the federation were representatives from Belgium, France, Great Britain, Switzerland and Bohemia (now Czech republic). Louis Magnus, the French representative, was the fifth member to sign the founding document and also the first president of the LIGH. A year later, the first congress was held in Paris and then another one during the same year in Chamonix, France.\n\nThe Federation has 51 full members: Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belgium, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Canada, China, Chinese Taipei, Croatia, Czech Republic, Denmark, DPR Korea, Estonia, Finland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Hong Kong, Hungary, Iceland, India, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Mexico, Mongolia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, and United States. Full members have a national body dedicated to the sport, and participate annually in the international championships. Only full members have voting rights.\n\nIn addition, there are 16 associate members and 3 affiliate members.\n\nAssociate members either do not have a national body dedicated to the sport, or do not regularly participate in the international championships. They are Andorra, Armenia, Brazil, Georgia, Greece, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Liechtenstein, Macau, Macedonia, Malaysia, Moldova, Morocco, Portugal, Singapore and United Arab Emirates.\n\nAffiliate members participate only in the inline championships. They are Argentina, Chile and Namibia.\n\n\n", "id": "305410", "title": "International Ice Hockey Federation"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305411", "text": "Canadian Junior Hockey League\n\nThe Canadian Junior Hockey League (CJHL), an association of Canadian Junior A ice hockey leagues and teams, formed in November 1993, emerging from the Canada West Association of Junior 'A' Hockey.\n", "id": "305411", "title": "Canadian Junior Hockey League"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305412", "text": "Alberta Junior Hockey League\n\nThe Alberta Junior Hockey League (AJHL) is an Alberta-based Junior A hockey league that belongs to the Canadian Junior Hockey League (CJHL).\n", "id": "305412", "title": "Alberta Junior Hockey League"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305413", "text": "British Columbia Hockey League\n\nThe British Columbia Hockey League is a Junior \"A\" ice hockey league from British Columbia under Hockey Canada, a subsection of the Canadian Junior Hockey League.\n\n", "id": "305413", "title": "British Columbia Hockey League"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305414", "text": "Central Canada Hockey League\n\nThe Central Canada Hockey League (CCHL) is a Canadian Junior \"A\" ice hockey league operating in eastern Ontario, Canada.\n", "id": "305414", "title": "Central Canada Hockey League"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305416", "text": "Quebec Junior AAA Hockey League\n\nThe Ligue de Hockey Junior AAA Quebec or Quebec Junior AAA Hockey League is a Hockey Quebec Junior \"AAA\" ice hockey league. It is a member of Hockey Canada and the Canadian Junior Hockey League.\n", "id": "305416", "title": "Quebec Junior AAA Hockey League"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305419", "text": "Czech Extraliga\n\nThe Czech Extraliga () is the highest-level ice hockey league in the Czech Republic. As of 2009, it is ranked by the IIHF as the third strongest league in Europe.\n\nThe name of the league is leased a general sponsor and changes frequently.\n\nNote: The names of most teams are leased to general sponsors and change frequently.\n\n\n", "id": "305419", "title": "Czech Extraliga"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305420", "text": "Deutsche Eishockey Liga\n\nThe Deutsche Eishockey Liga (\"German Ice Hockey League\", shortname DEL) is a German professional ice hockey league, which currently has the highest number of American and Canadian players outside of North America. \n\nThere are currently 14 teams playing in the DEL.\n", "id": "305420", "title": "Deutsche Eishockey Liga"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305427", "text": "Kontinental Hockey League\n\nThe Kontinental Hockey League (KHL) () is an international professional ice hockey league in Eurasia founded in 2008. \n", "id": "305427", "title": "Kontinental Hockey League"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305429", "text": "Apple strudel\n\nApple strudel () is a traditional Austrian dessert. It is also known in most of the countries which formed the Austro-Hungarian Empire.\n\nThe recipe came over the Ottoman Empire to Austria. A sweet related to strudel is baklava. Strudel was named for the first time in 1696. It gained popularity through Empress Maria Theresia.\n\nStrudel is made of a thin, elastic pastry. The filling contains sliced apples, sugar, cinnamon, raisins, and bread crumbs. Preparing the strudel dough is a difficult process, so you can also buy strudel pastry. Apple strudel can also be made with puff pastry. Traditionally, the strudel is served warm with whipped cream or vanilla ice cream. Also, vanilla sauce is popular in many countries.\n", "id": "305429", "title": "Apple strudel"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305434", "text": "Ostreoida\n\nThe order Ostreoida includes the oysters and other families of bivalves such as Pectinidae (mostly scallops). \n\nIn 2010, a new proposed classification system for the Bivalvia was published by Bieler, Carter & Coan, revising the classification of the Bivalvia, including the order Ostreoida.\n\nOrder Ostreoida\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "305434", "title": "Ostreoida"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305435", "text": "Pectinina\n\nPectinina is a suborder in the Bivalve order Ostreoida. It contains the superfamilies Pectinoidea and Anomioidea.\n", "id": "305435", "title": "Pectinina"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305436", "text": "Constantine Samuel Rafinesque\n\nConstantine Samuel Rafinesque-Schmaltz (October 22, 1783 – September 18, 1840) was a nineteenth-century polymath. He contributed to botany, zoology, the study of prehistoric earthworks in North America and Mesoamerican ancient linguistics.\n\nRafinesque was eccentric. People often say he was an \"erratic genius\". He was an autodidact. He was successful in many things. He was good as a zoologist, botanist, writer and polyglot. He wrote prolifically on such diverse topics as anthropology, biology, geology, and linguistics. Today, scholars say that he was far ahead of his time in many of these fields.\n", "id": "305436", "title": "Constantine Samuel Rafinesque"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305438", "text": "Ostreidae\n\nOstreidae are the true oysters. The family includes most species eaten under the name \"oyster\". Pearl oysters are not true oysters because they belong to a different order, the Pterioida.\n\nLike scallops, true oysters have a central adductor muscle. This causes a scar in the middle of the shell. It is the point of attachment. The shell is often irregular because oysters attach to substrates.\n", "id": "305438", "title": "Ostreidae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305439", "text": "Lens (eye)\n\nThe crystalline lens is a transparent, biconvex structure in the eye. With the cornea it helps to refract light to be focused on the retina. The lens changes shape. This changes the focal distance of the eye so that it can focus on objects at various distances. This adjustment of the lens is called accommodation. It is similar to the focusing of a photographic camera when it focuses its lenses. The lens is flatter on the inside.\n\nThe lens is also called the \"aquula\" (Latin, \"a little stream\", dim. of \"aqua\", \"water\") or \"crystalline lens\". In humans, the refractive power of the lens in its natural environment is approximately 18 dioptres. This is about one-third of the eye's total power.\n\n", "id": "305439", "title": "Lens (eye)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305440", "text": "Pecten (bivalve)\n\nPecten is a genus of large scallops or saltwater clams, marine bivalve mollusks in the family Pectinidae.\nThis is the type genus of the family.\n\nThe name \"Pecten\" is the Latin word for a comb or rake.\n\nShell petroleum company has used its logo with a shell since 1904.\n\nSpecies in the genus \"Pecten\" include:\n", "id": "305440", "title": "Pecten (bivalve)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305442", "text": "Byssus\n\nByssus means a silky \"filament\" by which certain molluscs attach to hard surfaces. It also means a rare fabric. It is also called sea silk, and is its fibre source.\n", "id": "305442", "title": "Byssus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305457", "text": "Lake Ülemiste\n\nLake Ülemiste () a lake in Estonia. It is the largest of the lakes near Tallinn, the capital city. Tallinn takes its drinking water from this lake. The lake gets its water mostly from the small Kurna stream and the larger Pirita River (through the Vaskjala-Ülemiste canal).\n\nThere is a legend about this lake. The legend says that the \"Old Man of Lake Ülemiste\" () lives in the lake. When anyone meets him, he always asks: \"Is Tallinn ready yet?\". If the other person answers \"Yes, the city is ready.\", then the old man will send the lake waters out to cover the city of Tallinn. In this way, if anyone meets this old man, they should answer: \"No, the city is not ready. There is a lot of work to do still.\" In this way the city can be saved.\n", "id": "305457", "title": "Lake Ülemiste"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305472", "text": "Sachertorte\n\nThe Sachertorte (Sacher cake) is a chocolate cake with a chocolate icing and a apricot jam filling. It is a typical sweet from Vienna. It is named after Franz Sacher, who invented the recipe.\nThe first cake was made by Franz Sacher in 1832 when Klemens Fürst Metternich ordered the kitchen to create a new sweet for his evening guests. The chef was ill so Sacher, who was apprentice in his second year, invented the first Sachertorte. After this the cake was nearly forgotten. Sacher worked in Budapest and Presburg and opened in 1848 a high-class delicatessen and winery in Vienna. His son Eduard Sacher, who learned in the Demel bakery which supplyed the court, brought the recipe in the form we know today. First the cake was sold by Demel, but after Eduard bought the Hotel Sacher also there.\n\nIn the 20th century there was a legal battle between the Sacher and the Demel about selling the \"Original Sacher Torte\". In 1963 the both parties agree, that the Hotel Sacher is allowed to use the name \"Original Sacher Torte\". The Demel could now sell a \"Eduard Sacher Torte\".\n\nThe Sachertorte consists of a chocolate sponge cake with a thin layer of apricot jam in the middle and dark chocolate icing on the top and sides. The main difference between the cake from the Hotel Sacher and from the Demel bakery is that the Original Sacher Torte has a layer of apricot jam under the icing and in the middle of the cake. The cake from Demel has only jam under the icing.\n\nYou can buy the \"Original Sacher Torte\" only at the Vienna and Salzburg locations of the Hotel Sacher, at the Cafes Sacher in Innsbruck and Graz, at the Sacher Shop in Bozen, in the Duty Free area of the Vienna airport and via the web at the Hotel Sacher's online shop. The recipe is a secret but it is known that the icing consists of three different types of choclate which are produced exclusively by different producers for this single purpose.\n\nMost of the time the cake is served with whipped cream without sugar.\n\n", "id": "305472", "title": "Sachertorte"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305473", "text": "Salzburger Nockerl\n\nSalzburger Nockerl is a sweet dessert from Salzburg, Austria.\n\nThe dessert is made of egg yolk, flour, sugar, salt, vanilla, and milk mixed into a thin dough. It is always freshly prepared. It is served warm with powdered sugar on it. The powdered sugar is said to represent the snow-covered peaks of the Gaisberg, Moenchsberg and Nonnberg.\n\nIn the operetta \"Saison in Salzburg\" (Season in Salzburg) by Fred Raymond, the dessert is praised in a song as \"“Suess wie die Liebe und zart wie ein Kuss” (meaning Sweet as love and tender as a kiss in German). A legend says that they were invented by Salome Alt, the concubine of Salzburg′s Archbishop Wolf Dietrich von Raitenau in the early 17th century.\n\n", "id": "305473", "title": "Salzburger Nockerl"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305478", "text": "Thermochemistry\n\nThermochemistry is the study of the energy and heat to do with chemical reactions and physical transformations (physical changes). Physical transformations are when a state of matter (a solid or liquid, for example) changes to another state. Examples of transformations include melting (when a solid becomes a liquid) and boiling (when a liquid becomes a gas).\n\nA reaction gives out or takes in energy. A physical transformation also gives out or takes in energy. Thermochemistry looks at these energy changes, particularly on a system's energy exchange with its surroundings. Thermochemistry is useful in predicting reactant and product quantities at all times during a given reaction. Thermochemists do this by using data, including entropy determinations. Thermochemists will tell if a reaction is spontaneous or non-spontaneous, favorable or unfavorable. \n\nEndothermic reactions take in heat. Exothermic reactions give out heat. Thermochemistry combines the concepts of thermodynamics with the idea of energy in the form of chemical bonds. It includes calculations of such quantities as heat capacity, heat of combustion, heat of formation, enthalpy, entropy, free energy, and calories.\nThermochemistry started with two ideas:\n\n\nThese discoveries came before the first law of thermodynamics (1845). They helped scientists understand this law.\n\nEdward Diaz and Hess investigated specific heat and latent heat. Joseph Black developed the concept of latent energy changes.\n\nGustav Kirchhoff showed in 1858 that change in the heat of reaction is given by the difference in heat capacity between products and reactants: <math>\n", "id": "305478", "title": "Thermochemistry"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305480", "text": "Kurt Schuschnigg\n\nKurt Alois Josef Johann Schuschnigg (1897–1977, until 1919, \"Edler von Schuschnigg\") was the 15th Chancellor of Austria. He was in office between the assassination of his predecessor, Engelbert Dollfuss in 1934, and the annexation of Austria in 1938. The time of Dollfuss' and Schuschnigg's reign is known as Austrofascism today. He survived the war as a prisoner. After the war, he took US citizenship, and became a professor for state law in the United States. In 1968, he returned to Austria, where he died in 1977. \n\nSchuschnigg studied law in Freiburg im Breisgau and Innsbruck. The nazi Otto Planetta killed Dollfuss, in 1934, in an event that is known as July putsch today. During the war, the NSDAP saw Planetta as a hero. Schuschnigg became the next Chancellor, and at age 36, is the youngest person to become chanellor to this date. \n\nSchuschnigg was a conservative and an Austrian nationalist. He also supported the idea of Austria as a catholic nation. During his time in office, he was opposed to the idea of Austria becoming a part of Germany. Adolf Hitler began to make show aggression towards Austria in the later 1930s. Schuschnigg planned a referendum on the issue, and this was strongly opposed by the Nazis. In his last major speech, he gave an emotional appeal to Austrian independence and nationalism, finishing with the line \"Red White Red, until we're dead!\" (referring to the colors of the Austrian flag). Schuschnigg was forced to step down on 11th March 1938, and to hand power to Dr. Arthur Seyß-Inquart. One day later, Austria was annexed to Germany. \n\nSchuschnigg was arrested by the Gestapo soon after this. He was sent to the infamous Dachau Concentration Camp, where he spent most of the war. After Dachau was liberated by allied armed forces he moved to the United States. He wrote books on his political career and worked in academia in the US. In 1968 he retired from being a professor and retired to Austria, where he died of natural causes in 1977. \n", "id": "305480", "title": "Kurt Schuschnigg"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305485", "text": "Valeria Kozlova\n\nValeria Sergeyevna Kozlova (; born on January 22, 1988) is a Russian singer, composer, songwriter, drummer and actress. She was a member of the music group \"Ranetki\" from 2005 until 2008.\n\nShe was in a relationship with \"Ranetki\"'s producer Sergei Milnichenko (b.1966) from 2005 until 2008.\n\n", "id": "305485", "title": "Valeria Kozlova"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305488", "text": "Diario Frontera\n\nDiario Frontera is a Venezuelan regional newspaper, headquartered in Ejido, in the state of Mérida. Founded in 1978, its slogan is \"El diario del occidente del país\" (The Daily of the occident of the country).\n\nThe newspaper is distributed as standard colored format. It contains regional, national, and international news. It has two supplements, issued every Sunday: \"Aquí entre Nos\" magazine, and a supplement for children, \"Chipilín\". It has special editions for occasions like \"Feria del Sol\" and \"Día del Trabajador\".\n\n\"Diario Frontera\" was founded by José Benedicto Monsalve, along with the writer Rafael Ángel Gallegos, who was the first director, on 12 August 1978. At the beginning, it was printed in black and white using a rotary owned by \"Diario Critica\".\n\nIn the eighties, \"Diario Frontera\" became a generalist newspaper, printed in black and white, and with 20 pages. Since 1989, it has printed a page or a section dedicated to the University of the Andes, due to the great amount of students and the importance of the University in the life of the city.\n\nIn June 2005, it printed an inquiry about a student of the university killed by the police. \"Diario\" wrote that the student had been hit by the policemen, but also revealed his belonging to an armed political group. The headquarter of the newspaper was attacked by groups of students; it was the beginning of riots that then spread all over the city. The pleas of Reporters Without Borders remained unheard.\n\nIn 2008, on the occasion of the thirtieth anniversary, \"Diario\" has revamped graphics (logo, typeface).\n\n\n\n", "id": "305488", "title": "Diario Frontera"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305489", "text": "Charles Doolittle Walcott\n\nCharles Doolittle Walcott (March 31, 1850 – February 9, 1927) was an American geologist and invertebrate paleontologist. He became known for his discovery in 1909 of well-preserved fossils in the Burgess Shale of British Columbia, Canada.\n\nWalcott became Director of the U.S. Geological Survey 1894–1907, and Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 1907–1927. He discovered a number of important fossil sites. At the Walcott Quarry, the lowest (earliest) of the Burgess Shale deposits, Walcott collected 65,000 specimens between 1910 and 1924. The site dates to the Middle Cambrian, and is in the Canadian Rockies.\n\nThe Walcott-Rust quarry is near Russia, New York. This site has produced some of the best preserved trilobites ever found, including enrolled specimens with soft body parts.\n\n", "id": "305489", "title": "Charles Doolittle Walcott"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305490", "text": "Mérida (state)\n\nEstado Mérida () is one of the 23 states of Venezuela. The state capital is Mérida. Mérida State covers a total surface area of 11,300 km² and, in 2007, had an estimated population of 843,800.\n\nHydrography is divided into two basins of the Orinoco River (Atlantic) and Lake Maracaibo (Caribbean Sea): In the Orinoco River basin major rivers are: Santo Domingo, Canaguá, Escagüey, Ticopoto, Bumbúm and Carapo; in the In the Lake Maracaibo basin major rivers are: Chama, Motatán, Mucujepe, Capaz, Torondoy, Mocotíes and Nuestra Señora.\n\nIn the state there are a lot of gaps between them are: La Mucuy, Los Patos, Negra, Mucubaji, Santo Cristo, El Arco, Los Anteojos, Suero, Encierro, La Sangre, El Gallo, Don Pedro, Laguna Grande, campanario, La Honda, La Negra, Fría y La Carbonera. Other gaps: Laguna Brava, Los Lirios and Urao \n\n\n\n\nThe climate is cold but in the relatively small area of Mérida state, there are usually several dramatic climatic changes that occur daily. The climate in Mérida city is between 19 °C and 20 °C, temperatures between 5 °C and 9 °C at El Bolivar Peak, or below zero when it snows and 28 °C in the El Vigía area. Its rains almost every late afternoon in January–February that is the coldest months an August–September and in August and September it often rains at night. The vegetation is exuberant and there are many lakes and rivers, a great number of which are well stocked with trout, one of the delicacies of Mérida. The most important river in the state is the \"Chama\" because a large part of the water resources of Venezuela originates in the Mérida mountains. The state tree is the \"Bucare\" and the state flower is the \"Frailejón\" and in the \"Coloradito\" is found the tree at the highest altitude in the world. In this mountains habitat the \"Oso Frontino\" bear and the majestic Condor flies through the skies of the páramos and in the lagoons there are many trout.\n\n", "id": "305490", "title": "Mérida (state)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305492", "text": "Microsoft Agent\n\nMicrosoft Agent is the technology created by Microsoft which uses animated characters Text to speech engines, and Speech recognition software to improve interaction with computer users. It comes pre-installed with Windows 2000 through to Windows Vista but not on Windows 7.\nMicrosoft Agent characters are stored in files of the .ACS file format, and can be stored in a number of compressed .ACF files for better World Wide Web distribution. Microsoft Office 97 and Microsoft Bob Actor characters are stored in files of the .ACT format.\n\nThe speech engine itself is driven by the Microsoft Speech API (SAPI), version 4 and above. Microsoft SAPI provides a control panel for easily installing and switching between various available Text to Speech and Speech to Text engines, as well as voice training and scoring systems to improve the quality and accuracy of both engines.\n\nMicrosoft provides four agent characters for free, which can be downloaded from the Microsoft Agent website. These are called Peedy, Merlin, Genie, and Robby. Some characters also shipped with Microsoft Office up to version 2003 as the Office Assistants and with Windows XP as search assistants. New Agent characters can also be created using Microsoft's development tools, including the Agent Character Editor. Agents can be embedded in software with Visual Basic for Applications and in web pages with VBScript, and automated tools for the purpose of simplifying this exist. However, web page agents are only compatible with Internet Explorer, since alternative browsers like Opera or Mozilla Firefox do not support ActiveX. Additionally, users of Windows Me, Windows 2000, Windows XP, and above or owners of Microsoft Office 2000 and up are the only ones who have Agent software pre-loaded on their computers; others have to download the software and install it manually.\n", "id": "305492", "title": "Microsoft Agent"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305493", "text": "Gideon Welles\n\nGideon Welles (July 1, 1802 – February 11, 1878) was the United States Secretary of the Navy during the presidencies of Abraham Lincoln and Andrew Johnson. He served from March 7, 1861 until March 4, 1869. He was from Glastonbury, Connecticut.\n", "id": "305493", "title": "Gideon Welles"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305496", "text": "Keble College, Oxford\n\nKeble College is one of the colleges of the University of Oxford in England. Its main buildings are on Parks Road, opposite the University Museum and the University Parks. Keble is one of the larger colleges, with 435 undergraduates and 245 graduate students. The head of the college is the Warden (currently Sir Jonathan Phillips) and senior academic members are Fellows.\n\nKeble was founded in 1870, having been built as a monument to John Keble, a leading member of the Oxford Movement. As originally constituted it was for men only and the fellows were mostly bachelors resident in the college. In the period after the second World War the trends were towards scientific courses (the major area devoted to science east of the University Museum influenced this) and eventually co-education for men and women from 1979 onwards.\n\nIt remains distinctive for its once-controversial neo-gothic red-brick buildings designed by William Butterfield. During the 20th century the college has been extended several times by new buildings.\n", "id": "305496", "title": "Keble College, Oxford"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305497", "text": "New York Clipper\n\nThe New York Clipper, also known as The Clipper, was a weekly entertainment newspaper published in New York City from 1853 to 1924. It covered topics such as dance, music, the outdoors, and sports.\n\n", "id": "305497", "title": "New York Clipper"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305498", "text": "Baltimore Orioles (19th century)\n\nThe Baltimore Orioles were a 19th-century American Association and National League. They formed in 1882 and went defunct 1899. The team, which featured numerous future Hall of Famers, finished in first place three consecutive years (1894–1896) and won the Temple Cup championship in 1896 and 1897.\n", "id": "305498", "title": "Baltimore Orioles (19th century)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305507", "text": "Sayabec\n\nSayabec is a small town called \"municipality\" in Quebec, Canada. It was established in 1894. 1,877 people live there. Sayabec is in the Matapedia Valley close to the Matapedia Lake.\n", "id": "305507", "title": "Sayabec"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305513", "text": "Arrows\n\n\"This article is about the Formula One racing team. For other uses of the term \"arrow,\" see Arrow.\n\nArrows Grand Prix International was a Formula One team active from 1978 to 2002. The team was also known as Footwork.\n\nThe Arrows Grand Prix International team was founded in 1977, by Italian financier (someone who handles lots of money) Franco Ambrosio, Alan Rees, Jackie Oliver, Dave Wass and Tony Southgate when Rees, Oliver, Wass and Southgate left the Shadow team. They named the team after the first letter of each person's last name in order, spelling out AROWS. The name was then changed to the correct spelling of Arrows.\n\nThe team earned their first podium at the 1978 Swedish Grand Prix, with future Williams driver Riccardo Patrese earning second. The rest of the season consisted of him earning points occasionally. Arrows fielded Patrese until 1981. In 1984 the team used BMW M12 turbo engines, and later Megatron turbos, and results improved as the turbo era moved along, going at its peak in 1988 when the team finished fifth in the constructors' championship. In between 1984 and 1988 the team had gotten two podium positions. Eventually when turbo engines were banned from the regulations, making them illegal to run in a race, Arrows' performance dropped, despite a third place podium finish at the 1989 USA Grand Prix in Phoenix.\n\nThe team was renamed Footwork in 1991 until being changed back to Arrows after the 1996 season. Arrows' performance dropped with the usage of the Porsche engines. Footwork eventually changed to Mugen Honda engines. The team also ran Ford and Hart engines as well.\n\nIn 1997, Tom Walkenshaw bought a part of Arrows, and hired 1996 Drivers' Champion Damon Hill and Pedro Diniz. Diniz was very rich and helped pay for Hill's salary, placing Diniz as the role of a pay driver. Hill nearly won the Hungarian Grand Prix but a component failure meant that Hill had slowed down and fell to second place, where Hill would finish. In the next few years Walkenshaw would buy out what Jackie Oliver had owned.\n\nAs the seasons went on Arrows started to go in debt. In 2002 at times the two drivers, Heinz-Harald Frentzen and Enrique Bernoldi deliberately failed to qualify for a couple of races in an attempt to save some money. The team could not finish the season and went into liquidation and folded at the end of the season. However, Phoenix Finance purchased the team's assets and tried to enter in the 2003 season but was not allowed. \n", "id": "305513", "title": "Arrows"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305518", "text": "Bella Thorne\n\nAnnabella Avery \"Bella\" Thorne (born October 8, 1997) is an American actress, dancer, singer, and model. She started as a child model and actress who has appeared in more than 20 movies and television series and more than 60 commercials. She is best known for her role as the young dancer CeCe Jones on the Disney Channel series \"Shake It Up!\".\n\nBella Thorne was born on October 8, 1997 in Pembroke Pines, Florida. She is the youngest of four children. Her older siblings are Kaili (born in 1992), Dani (born in 1993), and Remy (born in 1995), who are also actors and models. When Thorne was growing up, Spanish was her first language, but she has forgotten it from not using it.\n\nThorne's first movie appearance was as a sidelines fan in the 2003 movie \"Stuck on You\", but she was not credited for it. Since then, she has appeared in movie and television projects including \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\", \"Entourage\", \"The O.C.\" (as a younger version of Taylor Townsend), the third-last episode of \"October Road\", and five episodes of \"Dirty Sexy Money\" (as Margaux Darling). In 2007, Thorne appeared as a young girl who saw visions in \"The Seer\".\n\nIn 2008, Thorne starred alongside Christian Slater and Taylor Lautner in the drama series \"My Own Worst Enemy\". She won a Young Artist's Award for her portrayal of the character Ruthy Spivey in this series. She then appeared in the ten-episode web series \"Little Monk\", which showed characters from the series \"Monk\" as children. In 2009, she played the antagonist in the horror movie \"Forget Me Not\".\n\nIn 2010, Thorne joined the cast of HBO's \"Big Love\" in its fourth season. She replaced Jolean Wejbe in the role of Bill Henrickson's daughter Tancy 'Teeny' Henrickson, even though she had actually auditioned for a different role. She also guest starred on \"Wizards of Waverly Place\", as Max's girlfriend Nancy Lukey. Thorne also took on a supporting role in the family drama \"Raspberry Magic\".\n\nThorne was also a child model. Since appearing in her first picture for a parenting magazine at the age of 6 weeks, Thorne has starred in television ad campaigns for Digital Light Processing, Publix, and KFC, and appeared in print ads for brands including Barbie, ALDO K!DS, JLO by Jennifer Lopez, Kaiya Eve Couture, LaSenza Girl, Tommy Hilfiger, Ralph Lauren, Guess?, Target, Justice and Mudd for Kohls. She also modelled for Sears Back to School. In an interview with Seventeen magazine, Thorne said that her appointment as the spokesperson for Texas Instruments was her big break. She also said that she has lost much more projects than she has booked and said that the support of her family helped her get over disappointments.\n\nThorne currently co-stars on the Disney Channel sitcom \"Shake It Up!\", (originally titled \"Dance, Dance Chicago\"). Thorne plays Cecelia \"CeCe\" Jones, a dancer who dreams of a career in the spotlight. While she had done a lot of work in television and movie, Thorne had no experience in professional dancing before being cast in this show. After signing onto the show in October 2009, she began taking three dance classes every night.\n\nThorne is from Pembroke Pines, Florida, but has been living with her family in California since early 2006. Her interests include dancing, playing soccer, spending time with her family and playing with her two dogs, six cats and a turtle. She also says that she collects hardcover books, listens to 80s music, and uses YouTube as a research tool for getting into character. Thorne is a strong supporter of the Humane Society, the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, and The Nomad Organization, which provides education, food and medical supplies to children in Africa.\n\nThorne lost her father to a vehicle accident in 2007.\n\nThorne was diagnosed with dyslexia in second grade. She is currently being home-schooled. She used to go to a public school, but was abused by other students. Thorne improved in her learning after attending a Sylvan Learning center and is currently reading and writing a grade ahead. Thorne also talked about her dyslexia in an April 2010 interview with American Cheerleader Magazine, and explained that she overcame her dyslexia by reading everything she could find, including the labels of cereal boxes.\n\nThorne is currently dating YouTuber Sam Pepper. In August 2016, Thorne came out as bisexual.\n\n", "id": "305518", "title": "Bella Thorne"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305525", "text": "François Mitterrand\n\nFrançois Maurice Adrien Marie Mitterrand (26 October 1916 - 8 January 1996) was a French politician who served as the President of the French Republic from 21 May 1981 until 17 May 1995. He was born in Jarnac in the Charente department. He was a member of the Socialist Party. Before being elected president, he had held several positions in the French Cabinet. As President of France, he was also one of the Co-Princes of Andorra. Jacques Chirac was President of France and \"ex officio\" Co-Prince of Andorra after him. Mitterrand died of prostate cancer in Paris. He was laid to rest in his birthplace Jarnac.\n\nFrom 1959 to 1981, Mitterrand was also mayor of Château-Chinon (Ville), a municipality in the Nièvre department. \n", "id": "305525", "title": "François Mitterrand"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305530", "text": "Afonso IV of Portugal\n\nAfonso IV (; 8 February 1291 – 28 May 1357), called the Brave (), was the seventh king of Portugal and the Algarve from 1325 until his death. He was the only son that King Denis of Portugal had with his wife Elizabeth of Aragon. Afonso married Beatrice of Castile (1293–1359) in 1309, daughter of Sancho IV, King of Castile and María de Molina, and had four sons and three daughters by her. He also had another daughter.\n", "id": "305530", "title": "Afonso IV of Portugal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305532", "text": "Burgenland\n\nThe Burgenland is one of the nine federal states of the Federal Republic of Austria. It is the youngest of the nine states and came to Austria after the First World War in 1921. The name Vierburgenland (Land of Four Castles) was created in 1919. It was derived from the name of the four vármegye of the Kingdom of Hungary (in German Komitate, 'counties') known in Hungarian as Pozsony, Moson, Sopron and Vas, or in German as Pressburg, Wieselburg, Ödenburg and Eisenburg. Because Pressburg was given to Czechoslovakia, the number was dropped. In 1922 the name was adopted by the province assembly.\n\nBurgenland has an area of 3961.80 km². It is divided into 3 regions (districts):\nSometimes Mittelburgenland is seen as a part of southern Burgenland.\n\nThe highest point of the state is the Geschriebenstein at 884 m, the lowest point is near Apetlon at 114 m. Burgenland and Hungary share the Neusiedler See. Leitha, Pulka and Raab are important rivers.\n\nBurgenland has Croatian (29,000 - 45,000) and Hungarian (5,000 - 15,000) populations. The Burgenland Croatian language is an 16th-century dialect which is different from standard Croatian. In former times there was also a Roma and Jewish population, but the Nazis destroyed them.\n\nIn 1043 a peace treaty between Henry III and King Samuel Aba of Hungary fixed the western border of the Kingdom of Hungary along the Leitha and Lafnitz rivers, among others. The territory of the present-day Burgenland became the western border-zone of the medieval Kingdom of Hungary until the 16th century. The majority of the population was Germanic. There was also immigration in the Middle Ages from the neighbouring Austria. During occupation of Hungary by the Ottoman Empire some parts of today's Burgenland stayed within Habsburg rule. After the Austro-Hungarian empire was formed in 1867 Burgenland was part of the Hungarian part of the monarchy. Because 74% of the inhabitants were of German origin the area came to the new formed Republic of Austria. In the time till the Second World War many people emigrated to the United States. It is said that Chicago is the largest town of the Burgenland.\n\nDuring the Nazi occupation the state was part of Styria and Lower Danube. In addition to the oppression of the Jews, the ethnic groups Roma and Sinti also suffered under the Nazi regime. The Lackenbach concentration camp for Gypsies was in the area.\n\nAfter the Second World War Burgenland was part of the Soviet occupation zone. After the Staatsvertrag it had a long border to the communist area in eastern Europe. The economic development was very slow. After joining the European Union this development became faster.\n\nBurgenland's provincial assembly (Landtag) has 36 seats. The provincial government is a combination of Social Democratic Party (SPÖ) and the Austrian People's Party (ÖVP). The voting age for regional elections in Burgenland was reduced to 16 in 2003.\n\nThe area's main attractions are the Neusiedler See (the lake), the hot springs at Lutzmannsburg, Stegersbach and Bad Tatzmannsdorf. There is also over 500 km of bicycle tracks in Also.\n\nThere are several events in summer:\n\n", "id": "305532", "title": "Burgenland"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305534", "text": "Organometallic chemistry\n\nOrganometallic chemistry is the study of chemical compounds containing bonds between carbon and a metal. It combines aspects of inorganic chemistry (the study of non-carbon bonds) and organic chemistry (the study of carbon bonds).\n\nExamples of organometallic compounds are tetraethyllead; it was used as a fuel (leaded gasoline) additive in the past. Also Methylcobalamin (Vitamin B) is a common organometallic compound.\n\nOrganometallic compounds are compounds that have chemical bonds between an one or more metal atoms and one or more carbon atoms of an organyl group (an organic ligand). They have the prefix \"organo-\" (for example, organopalladium compounds). Organometallic compounds include subgroups like the metalloproteins such as haemoglobin. \n\nThe term \"metalorganics\" usually refers to metal-containing compounds lacking direct metal-carbon bonds but which contain organic ligands which bind them to an organic compound. Metal beta-diketonates, alkoxides, and dialkylamides are members of this class.\n\nIn addition to the traditional metals, elements such as boron, silicon, arsenic, and selenium form organometallic compounds.\n\nMany complexes have coordination bonds between a metal and organic ligands. The organic ligands often bind the metal through a heteroatom such as oxygen or nitrogen, in which case such compounds are called \"coordination compounds\". \n\nMany organic coordination compounds occur in nature. For example, hemoglobin and myoglobin contain an iron center coordinated to the nitrogen atoms of a porphyrin ring; magnesium is the center of a chlorin ring in chlorophyll. The field of such inorganic compounds is known as bioinorganic chemistry. However, methylcobalamin (a form of Vitamin B), with a cobalt-methyl bond, is a true organometallic complex, one of the few known in biology. \n\nThe metal-carbon bond in organometallic compounds is half way between being ionic and covalent. Organometallic compounds with bonds that have characters in between ionic and covalent are very important in industry. They are both relatively stable in solutions but ionic enough to undergo reactions. Two important classes are organolithium and Grignard reagents. \n\nOrganometallics find practical uses in stoichiometric and catalytic processes, especially processes involving carbon monoxide and alkene-derived polymers. All the world's polyethylene and polypropylene are produced with organometallic catalysts. Acetic acid is produced using metal carbonyl catalysts in the Monsanto process and Cativa process. The bulk of the synthetic alcohols, at least those larger than ethanol, are produced by hydrogenation of hydroformylation-derived aldehydes. Similarly, the Wacker process is used in the oxidation of ethylene to acetaldehyde.\n\nOrganomettalic are highly basic and highly reducing. They catalyze many polymerization reactions. They are also useful stoichiometrically.\n\nOrganometallic compounds may be found in the environment. Environmentalists worry about organo-lead and organo-mercury compounds. They are toxic hazards.\n\nResearch is currently underway using organometallic catalysis. The energy crisis has initiated increased interest in more efficient ways of working with the remaining fossil fuels we have left. While many agree that lowering oil dependence is safer for the environment as well as politically wise. The new interest in “green” technologies has also helped increase research. Many examples of organometallic research can be found in the petrochemical and pharmaceutical industries. Some current methods of chemical production are wasteful and produce toxic waste, while many organometallic catalysts show promise to change that.\n\nLouis Claude Cadet synthesized methyl arsenic compounds related to cacodyl. William Christopher Zeise made platinum-ethylene complex. Edward Frankland discovered dimethyl zinc. Ludwig Mond discovered Ni(CO). Victor Grignard worked with organomagnesium compounds. The abundant and diverse products from coal and petroleum led to Ziegler-Natta, Fischer-Tropsch, hydroformylation catalysis which employ CO, H, and alkenes as feedstocks and ligands.\n\nYears ago, Tetraethyllead was added to gasoline as an antiknock agent. Because lead is toxic, it is no longer used in gasoline. Instead, other organometallic compounds such as ferrocene and methylcyclopentadienyl manganese tricarbonyl (MMT) are now added to gasoline to prevent knocking.\n\nThe 1973 Nobel Prizes to Ernst Fischer and Geoffrey Wilkinson for work on metallocenes made organometallic chemistry more popular. In 2005, Yves Chauvin, Robert H. Grubbs and Richard R. Schrock shared the Nobel Prize for metal-catalyzed olefin metathesis.\n\n\n\n", "id": "305534", "title": "Organometallic chemistry"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305536", "text": "Coniston Water\n\nConiston Water (usually called just Coniston) is a lake in Cumbria. It is the third largest lake in the Lake District. It is long and wide. The lake has an elevation of 143 feet (44 m) above sea level. It drains to the sea via the River Crake.\n\nIn the 20th century Coniston was the scene of many attempts to break the world water speed record. On August 19, 1939 Sir Malcolm Campbell set the record at 141.74 miles per hour (228.108 km/h) in Bluebird K4. Between 1956 and 1959 Sir Malcolm's son Donald Campbell set four successive records on the lake in Bluebird K7, a hydroplane.\n\nIn 1966 Donald Campbell decided that he needed to get over 300 miles per hour (483 km/h) to keep the record. On January 4, 1967 he achieved a top speed of over 320 miles per hour (515 km/h) in Bluebird K7 on the return leg of a record-breaking attempt. He then lost control of Bluebird, which somersaulted and crashed, sinking rapidly. Campbell was killed instantly on impact. The attempt could not be counted as a record-breaking run because the second leg was not completed.\n\nIn recent times, Coniston Water has become known for a controversial murder case. Mrs Carol Park was dubbed the \"\"Lady in the Lake\"\" after the Raymond Chandler novel of the same name.\n", "id": "305536", "title": "Coniston Water"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305543", "text": "Delirium tremens\n\nDelirium tremens (often called DTs or the DTs) is a medical emergency. It is the worst form of alcohol withdrawal, which can happen when a person who drinks a lot of alcohol suddenly stops drinking. \"Delirium\" means very bad confusion that comes on quickly; \"tremens\" means \"shaking.\"\n\nScientists think the DTs happen because the autonomic nervous system gets too excited. It works too hard and will not shut off.\n\nDTs were first described in 1813.\n\nMost people who stop drinking alcohol do not get the DTs. But some people are more likely to get the DTs if they suddenly stop drinking. DTs are more likely in people who:\n\nAbout 5% of people who have alcohol withdrawal symptoms get the DTs. About 5-10% of chronic (long-term) alcoholics get the DTs at some point in their life.\n\nDTs cause symptoms that can be very bad and very dangerous. Even though not many people get DTs when they stop drinking, many people that do get DTs die from them. Others get permanent brain damage or other problems.\n\nSymptoms usually start within 2 to 3 days after the person had their last drink. But in some people, DTs can happen up to a week or 10 days after their last drink.\n\nMost people who die from DTs die from one or more of these symptoms:\n\nOther body symptoms caused by DTs include:\n\nDTs can cause changes to thinking and feelings that can be very scary for the patient:\n\nDTs can cause major changes to the senses, especially what a person sees, hears, and feels. For example:\n\nDTs always need to be treated in a hospital. If a person starts having symptoms of DTs at home, 9-1-1 (or their local emergency number) should be called for an ambulance right away.\n\nSeveral types of medicines can be used to treat DTs:\nPeople with DTs are also often given thiamine (vitamin B1), an important vitamin, because alcoholics often do not have enough thiamine. If thiamine levels are low enough, this can cause brain damage.\n", "id": "305543", "title": "Delirium tremens"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305547", "text": "Brian Cox (physicist)\n\nBrian Edward Cox OBE (born March 3, 1968) is a British particle physicist. He is also a professor at the University of Manchester and a Royal Society University Research Fellow. He works on the ATLAS experiment at the Large Hadron Collider (LHC). Cox was born in Chadderton, Oldham, Lancashire. He is the presenter of some BBC science television programmes. He used to be a keyboard player for pop band D:Ream in the 1990s.\n\n", "id": "305547", "title": "Brian Cox (physicist)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305556", "text": "How to Win Friends and Influence People\n\nHow to Win Friends and Influence People is a self-help book. It was written by Dale Carnegie and first published in 1936. It is one of the best selling self-help books ever published. Since 1936, over 15 million copies have been sold worldwide.\n\n", "id": "305556", "title": "How to Win Friends and Influence People"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305558", "text": "Jemma Palmer\n\nJemma \"Jem\" Palmer (born 10 April 1986) is an English model and professional wrestler. She was briefly signed to World Wrestling Entertainment. She is also known by the name Inferno. She used this name in the 2008 British television series \"Gladiators\". In 2011, she became known for taking part in the twelfth series of \"Big Brother\".\n", "id": "305558", "title": "Jemma Palmer"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305559", "text": "Damien Sandow\n\nAaron Steven Haddad (born August 3, 1982) is an American professional wrestler. He currently works for the WWE where he competes under the ring name, Damien Mizdow, a spoof of his former ring name Damien Sandow.\n\nHe won the 2013 Money in the Bank for a World Heavyweight Championship Money in the Bank opportunity but became the first wrestler to outright lose his cash-in title match when he was defeated by John Cena on the October 28 episode of Raw.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "305559", "title": "Damien Sandow"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305560", "text": "Ulf von Euler\n\nUlf Svante von Euler (7 February 1905 – 9 March 1983) was a Swedish physiologist and pharmacologist. He won a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1970 for his work on neurotransmitters.\n", "id": "305560", "title": "Ulf von Euler"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305563", "text": "The Fighting Temptations\n\nThe Fighting Temptations is a 2003 musical drama movie with Cuba Gooding Jr., and Beyoncé Knowles.\n", "id": "305563", "title": "The Fighting Temptations"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305567", "text": "Titus O'Neil\n\nThaddeus Bullard (born April 29, 1977 in Boynton Beach, Florida) better known under the ring name Titus O'Neil, is an American professional wrestler and former American football player currently signed to World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE). \n\nHe is one half of the Prime Time Players along with Darren Young. He competed on the second season of NXT where he finished 5th and also competed on the fifth season of NXT called NXT Redemption. He played professional football in the Arena Football League for the Utah Blaze, Tampa Bay Storm, Las Vegas Gladiators and Carolina Cobras.\n\n\n", "id": "305567", "title": "Titus O'Neil"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305569", "text": "Paul Bearer\n\nWilliam Alvin \"Bill\" Moody (April 10, 1954 - March 5, 2013) better known by his ring name Paul Bearer as well as Percival Pringle III, was an American professional wrestling manager and professional wrestler. He was best known for managing both The Undertaker as well as his on-screen brother, Kane in the WWF/WWE.\n\nMoody was born on April 10, 1954 in Mobile, Alabama. He died on March 5, 2013 in Mobile, Alabama from a heart attack. Club board member of Cauliflower Alley Club \"Cowboy\" Bob Kelly said that during a reunion on March 2, Moody was having trouble breathing and was also coughing. Moody said that he was going to be treated for respiratory problems and Kelly said that Moody was treated for a blood clot after the reunion.\n\n", "id": "305569", "title": "Paul Bearer"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305571", "text": "Maury Povich\n\nMaurice Richard \"Maury\" Povich (born January 17, 1939) is an American television talk show host. He hosted the tabloid talk show \"Maury\".\n\nPovich graduated from the Landon School in 1957. He graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1962 with a degree in television journalism. \nPovich is married to former news anchor Connie Chung.\n\nPovich hosted the 2000 revival of the television game show \"Twenty One\".\n", "id": "305571", "title": "Maury Povich"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305573", "text": "Darwinopterus\n\nDarwinopterus (meaning \"Darwin's wing\") is a genus of pterosaur, discovered in China and named after Charles Darwin. It is the first known pterosaur to display features of both long-tailed (rhamphorhynchoid) and short-tailed (pterodactyloid) pterosaurs. \"Darwinopterus\" is a transitional fossil between the two groups. \n\nBetween 30 and 40 fossil specimens have been found, all collected from the Tiaojishan Formation, which dates to the Middle Jurassic, 160 million years ago (mya). The type species, \"D. modularis\", was described in February 2010. \n\nTwo additional species, \"D. linglongtaensis\" and \"D. robustodens\", were described from the same fossil beds in December 2010 and June 2011, respectively.\n\nThe specimens showed sexual dimorphism: the males had crests on their heads, and narrower hips than the females.\n\nThis genus, and its near relatives, show a combination of 'primitive' (basal) and 'advanced' (derived) pterosaurian features. This is characteristic of transitional fossils ('missing links'), and is called modular evolution or mosaic evolution.\n\n\"Darwinopterus\" had long tails and other features of rhamphorhynchoids, they also had distinct pterodactyloid features, such as long vertebrae in the neck and a single skull opening in front of the eyes.\n\nThe specimen preserved along with an egg gave information on the reproductive strategies of \"Darwinopterus\" and pterosaurs in general. \n\nLike the eggs of later pterosaurs and modern reptiles, the eggs of \"Darwinopterus\" had a parchment-like, soft shell. In modern birds, the eggshell is hardened with calcium carbonate, completely shielding the embryo from the outside environment. Soft-shelled eggs are permeable to water, and allow significant amounts to be absorbed into the egg during development. Eggs of this type are more vulnerable to the elements and are typically buried in soil. \n\nDavid Unwin, a co-author of the paper, suggested that \"Darwinopterus\" probably laid many small eggs at a time and buried them. Juveniles could fly upon hatching, and required little to no parental care. \n\nThese results imply that reproduction in pterosaurs was more like that in modern reptiles and significantly differed from reproduction in birds.\n", "id": "305573", "title": "Darwinopterus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305578", "text": "Rubén Sierra\n\nRubén Sierra (b. October 6, 1965) is a retired Puerto Rican Major League Baseball player. Sierra was an outfielder.\n", "id": "305578", "title": "Rubén Sierra"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305581", "text": "Matt Clement\n\nMatthew Paul Clement (born August 12, 1974, in Butler, Pennsylvania) is a former Major League Baseball starting pitcher. Clement played for the San Diego Padres, Florida Marlins, Chicago Cubs and Boston Red Sox. While on the Red Sox active roster, he was injured all of the 2007 season. He batted and threw right-handed.\n\nOn April 5, 2009, Clement said he was no longer going to play baseball.\n", "id": "305581", "title": "Matt Clement"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305589", "text": "Tarkovsky\n\nTarkovsky () is a Russian surname. The feminine form is Tarkovskaya (). A well-known person with this name was Andrei Tarkovsky, a Soviet movie director. \n", "id": "305589", "title": "Tarkovsky"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305596", "text": "Marin County, California\n\nMarin County, California is a county in the US state of California. It is north of the San Francisco Bay.\n\n\nSome of the cities in Marin County are:\n", "id": "305596", "title": "Marin County, California"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305601", "text": "Dolce &amp; Gabbana\n\nDolce & Gabbana, often called D&G, is an Italian fashion label. They make and sell clothes including shirts and underwear. The company was founded in Milan in 1985 by Domenico Dolce and Stefano Gabbana.\n", "id": "305601", "title": "Dolce &amp; Gabbana"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305602", "text": "Transitional fossil\n\nTransitional fossils (or missing links) are the fossilised remains of lifeforms that show features typical of two distinct groups. It may be a rare fossil, such as \"Archaeopteryx\", which shows early features of a group which later becomes widespread.\n\nThe rarity of transitional forms is interesting. It suggests the new forms are not yet dominant in the ecology of their time, and their populations are relatively small. It follows that their fossils would be scarce. In the Solnhofen limestone where \"Archaeopteryx\" was found, there are more examples of pterosaurs of several genera than there are of the proto-bird. In the Jurassic, the pterosaurs were dominant in the air. \n\nBut in the Lower Cretaceous the situation is reversed. The pterosaurs are in decline, and large numbers of different bird species are found in the famous Chinese lagerstatten deposits such as the Jehol biota. The Lower Cretaceous birds are clearly more bird-like, and the features they developed evidently evidently enabled them to invade habitat niches which had been the preserve of pterosaurs, or maybe were not previously exploited at all.\n\nTypical of transitional fossils is that some features are clearly basal or primitive. Other features are advanced ('derived'). With \"Archaeopteryx\", the front legs are derived, and show clearly the capacity for flight. Also, the feathers had the rachus (stem) off-centre, a feature of all bird flight feathers. The rest of the skeleton was just like any other small carnivorous dinosaur. \n\nWhen transition takes place between one group and another, not all features change at the same time. This is called mosaic evolution. Transitions between higher groups would involve a series of transitional species, only a few of which may be found as fossils.\n", "id": "305602", "title": "Transitional fossil"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305615", "text": "Jan Vyčítal\n\nJan Vyčítal (born March 8, 1942 in Prague, Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia) is a Czech country music singer and songwriter. He is founding member of Greenhorns.\n\n\n", "id": "305615", "title": "Jan Vyčítal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305624", "text": "Period 3 element\n\nA period 3 element is an element found on the third period (row) of the periodic table. The row has eight elements sodium, magnesium, aluminium, silicon, phosphorus, sulfur, chlorine, and argon.\n", "id": "305624", "title": "Period 3 element"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305625", "text": "Period 2 element\n\nA period 2 element is an element in the second period (row) of the periodic table. It has eight elements: lithium, beryllium, boron, carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, fluorine and neon.\n", "id": "305625", "title": "Period 2 element"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305631", "text": "Mariner 1\n\nMariner 1 was a NASA spacecraft. It was the first spacecraft in the Mariner program. Mariner 1 was planned to do a Venus fly-by. However, it was destroyed by the Range Safety Officer 293 seconds after launch. It was destroyed because the rocket moved off course and was a safety risk. Mariner 1 was followed by Mariner 2.\n\n", "id": "305631", "title": "Mariner 1"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305636", "text": "Cornish cookery\n\nCornish cookery denotes the cooking styles, traditions and recipes associated with Cornwall. It has been heavily influenced by the geography of the county as well as its social history.\n\nBeing a peninsula, fish dishes form a major part of the historical and modern recipes in Cornwall, with the fishing industry playing a major part in its economy. The iconic dish of Cornwall, the pasty, has its roots in the mining industry. \n\nCornwall's cookery has influenced and been influenced by other British cuisine, as well as having similarities with the cuisine of its neighbour, Devon.\n\nMuch of Cornwall's farming land is suitable for milk production and one of the by products is clotted cream (cream thickened by cooking). This forms the basis for many local specialities including Cornish fudge and Cornish ice cream and is used in Cornish cream teas. Cornish clotted cream is protected under EU law, and cannot be made anywhere else. \n\nCornwall is perhaps best known for its pasties, a savoury baked dish made from pastry. Today's pasties usually contain a filling of beef steak, onion, potato and swede with salt and white pepper, but historically pasties had a variety of different fillings. Pasties are often locally referred to as \"oggies\". \n", "id": "305636", "title": "Cornish cookery"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305642", "text": "National Gallery\n\nNational gallery may refer to: \n\n", "id": "305642", "title": "National Gallery"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305644", "text": "Pedro Rodríguez Ledesma\n\nPedro Eliezer Rodríguez Ledesma or Pedro (born 28 July 1987) is a Spanish footballer who plays for FC Barcelona and the Spanish national team.\n\n72||25\nManchester united 2015-\n\n\n\n", "id": "305644", "title": "Pedro Rodríguez Ledesma"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305645", "text": "Sergio Busquets\n\nSergio Busquets i Burgos (born 16 July 1988) is a Spanish footballer who plays for FC Barcelona and the Spanish national team.\n\n85||2\n\n", "id": "305645", "title": "Sergio Busquets"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305649", "text": "Edifício Itália\n\nEdifício Itália is a skyscraper in São Paulo, Brazil. It is 165 meters (550 feet) tall and has 46 floors. It was built in 1965.\n\n\n", "id": "305649", "title": "Edifício Itália"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305662", "text": "Start\n\nThe start is a beginning of an activity or the beginning of a race. It can also mean switching on an engine.\n", "id": "305662", "title": "Start"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305665", "text": "Ito Hirobumi\n\nIto was the first Japanese Governor General of Korea 1896–1909. \n\nIn 1874, Ito became the Interior Minister, and from 1878 to 1880, he served as the Second Interior Minister. From 1884 to 1887, Ito was Imperial Household Minister. \n\nFrom 1885 to 1888, he was first Prime Minister of Japan, and also, in 1887, was the Adjunct Foreign Minister of Japan. He served again as Prime Minister from 1892 to 1896, and again in 1898, and his final term was in 1900-1901 as the 10th Prime Minister.\n\nHe was killed for political reasons. \n\n", "id": "305665", "title": "Ito Hirobumi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305672", "text": "Complexity class\n\nA Complexity class is a concept from theoretical computer science and mathematics: All problems that have the same complexity are in the same complexity class. This means, that for a given input, they need about the same amount of resources, such as compute time, or memory. The most often used models for complexity are time complexity, which measures the time needed to calculate a result, or space complexity, which looks at the amount of memory or storage needed. When talking about complexity classes, a \"worst case scenario\" is usually assumed.\n", "id": "305672", "title": "Complexity class"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305675", "text": "Saif al-Islam al-Gaddafi\n\nSaif al-Islam al-Gaddafi (born June 25, 1972) is one of the sons of Muammar al-Gaddafi. Saif studied architecture and political science. He holds a PhD from the London School of Economics. Saif presides the Gaddafi International Foundation of Charitable Associations. In 2011, the International Criminal Court issued an arrest warrant against Saif. The court said that Saif may have committed crimes against humanity. According to the court, the Gaddafi regime used torture, killed people and raped women to incite the population to support the regime. \n\nAfter the Libyan civil war, Gaddafi was arrested. He tried to flee but was caught. He was flown to Zintan and has stayed there.\n", "id": "305675", "title": "Saif al-Islam al-Gaddafi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305676", "text": "Kim Jong-suk\n\nKim Jong-suk(김정숙, December 24, 1917 – September 22, 1949) was a Korean independence activist, and communist politician. She was the first wife of North Korean President Kim Il-sung, and the mother of Kim Jong-Il, North Korean Great Leader.\n\n", "id": "305676", "title": "Kim Jong-suk"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305679", "text": "Pope Pius VI\n\nPope Pius VI (; 25 December, 1717 – 29 August 1799), born Giovanni Angelo Braschi, was an Italian priest of the Roman Catholic Church and the 251st Pope from 1775 to 1799.\n\nPope Clement XIII named him treasurer of the Roman Church in 1766.\n\nIn 1775, Pope Clement XIV made Braschi a cardinal.\n\nCardinal Braschi was elected pope in 1775; and he chose to be called Pius VI.\n\nPope Pius was involved in Italian and European political disputes.\n\n\n\n", "id": "305679", "title": "Pope Pius VI"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305684", "text": "Mariner 2\n\nMariner 2 was a NASA spacecraft. It was the second spacecraft in the Mariner program. Mariner 2 was the first successful mission from Earth to another planet.\n\nMariner 2 was launched on August 27, 1962 aboard an Atlas-Agena B rocket at Cape Canaveral Air Force Station. The aim of the Mariner 2 mission was to fly-by the planet Venus and return information on the planet's atmosphere, magnetic field, charged particle environment, and mass. Mariner 2 was at its closest to Venus, at a distance of 34,773 km, on December 14, 1962. The spacecraft then went into orbit with the Sun on Secember 27, 1962, 105,464,560 km away. The last transmission from Mariner 2 was received on January 3, 1963. Mariner 2 is still orbiting around the Sun today.\n\nThe spacecraft's design was exactly the same as that of Mariner 1. Mariner 1 was the first spacecraft in the Mariner program, but it had to be destroyed shortly after launch because its trajectory was wrong.\n\nThe spacecraft found out that the surface temperature on Venus was at least 425 °C (797 °F), on both the day and night sides. It discovered that Venus rotates in the opposite direction from most planets in the Solar System. The spacecraft also found that the atmosphere of Venus is mostly of carbon dioxide and that there is a very high pressure at the planet's surface. Continuous cloud cover was detected but no magnetic field was, however. It also found that solar wind is continuous and that the density of cosmic dust between planets is much lower than it is near Earth.\n\n", "id": "305684", "title": "Mariner 2"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305685", "text": "Period 1 element\n\nA period 1 element is an element in the first period (row) of the periodic table. The periodic table is arranged in rows to show repeating properties of the elements. When the atomic number increases, the element have different properties. A new row begins when chemical properties repeat. It means that elements in the same group have similar properties. The first period has less elements than any other periods in the periodic table. There are only two elements in the first period: hydrogen and helium. We can explain why \"there is less elements in the first row\" in modern theories of atomic structure. This is because in quantum physics, this period fills up the 1s orbital. Period 1 elements follows the duet rule, they only need two electrons to complete their valence shell. These elements can only hold two electrons, both in the 1s orbital. Therefore, period 1 can have only two elements.\n\nAs period 1 only has two elements, there are no remarkable periodic trends.\n\nAlthough both hydrogen and helium are in the s-block, they do not behaves similarly to other s-block elements. There is argument over where these two elements should be placed in the periodic table.\n\nThe position of hydrogen is sometimes above lithium, sometimes above carbon, sometimes above fluorine, sometimes above both lithium and fluorine (appearing two times), or float above the other elements and not belongs to any group in the periodic table.\n\nThe position of helium is almost always above neon (which is in the p-block) in the periodic table because it is a noble gas. However, sometimes the position of it is above beryllium because they have similar electron configuration.\n\nHydrogen (symbol:H) is a chemical element. Its atomic number is 1. At standard temperature and pressure, hydrogen has no color, no smell and no taste. It belongs to nonmetal, and it is highly flammable. It is a diatomic gas with the molecular formula H. Its atomic mass is 1.00794 amu, making hydrogen the lightest element.\n\nHydrogen is the most abundant of the chemical elements. The abundance of hydrogen is roughly 75%. Stars in the main sequence are mainly composed of hydrogen in its plasma state. However, there are less hydrogen on Earth. Therefore, hydrogen is industrially produced from hydrocarbons (e.g. methane). We use elemental hydrogen locally at the production site. The largest markets almost equally divided between fossil fuel upgrading, such as hydrocracking, and ammonia production, mostly for the fertilizer market. Hydrogen may be produced from water using the process of electrolysis, but this process is significantly more expensive commercially than hydrogen production from natural gas.\n\nThe most common naturally occurring isotope of hydrogen, known as protium, has a single proton and no neutrons. In ionic compounds, it can take on either a positive charge, becoming a cation composed of a bare proton, or a negative charge, becoming an anion known as a hydride. Hydrogen can form compounds with most elements and is present in water and most organic compounds. It plays a particularly important role in acid-base chemistry, in which many reactions involve the exchange of protons between soluble molecules. As the only neutral atom for which the Schrödinger equation can be solved analytically, study of the energetics and spectrum of the hydrogen atom has played a key role in the development of quantum mechanics.\n\nThe interactions of hydrogen with various metals are very important in metallurgy, as many metals can suffer hydrogen embrittlement, and in developing safe ways to store it for use as a fuel. Hydrogen is highly soluble in many compounds composed of rare earth metals and transition metals and can be dissolved in both crystalline and amorphous metals. Hydrogen solubility in metals is influenced by local distortions or impurities in the metal crystal lattice.\n\nHelium (He) is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, inert monatomic chemical element that heads the noble gas series in the periodic table and whose atomic number is 2. Its boiling and melting points are the lowest among the elements and it exists only as a gas except in extreme conditions.\n\nHelium was discovered in 1868 by French astronomer Pierre Janssen, who first detected the substance as an unknown yellow spectral line signature in light from a solar eclipse. In 1903, large reserves of helium were found in the natural gas fields of the United States, which is by far the largest supplier of the gas. The substance is used in cryogenics, in deep-sea breathing systems, to cool superconducting magnets, in helium dating, for inflating balloons, for providing lift in airships, and as a protective gas for industrial uses such as arc welding and growing silicon wafers. Inhaling a small volume of the gas temporarily changes the timbre and quality of the human voice. The behavior of liquid helium-4's two fluid phases, helium I and helium II, is important to researchers studying quantum mechanics and the phenomenon of superfluidity in particular, and to those looking at the effects that temperatures near absolute zero have on matter, such as with superconductivity.\n\nHelium is the second lightest element and is the second most abundant in the observable universe. Most helium was formed during the Big Bang, but new helium is being created as a result of the nuclear fusion of hydrogen in stars. On Earth, helium is relatively rare and is created by the natural decay of some radioactive elements because the alpha particles that are emitted consist of helium nuclei. This radiogenic helium is trapped with natural gas in concentrations of up to seven percent by volume, from which it is extracted commercially by a low-temperature separation process called fractional distillation.\n", "id": "305685", "title": "Period 1 element"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305688", "text": "Peugeot 5008\n\nThe Peugeot 5008 is a MPV automobile produced by Peugeot since 2009. It is a longer version of the Peugeot 3008 and a MPV version of the Peugeot 308.\n\n", "id": "305688", "title": "Peugeot 5008"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305689", "text": "Fiat Multipla\n\nThe Fiat Multipla is a automobile produced by Fiat between 1998 and 2010. The original model became well known for its styling that divided opinion before it was facelifted in 2004. Fiat discontinued the model in 2010. It is a MPV version of the Fiat Bravo.\n\n", "id": "305689", "title": "Fiat Multipla"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305708", "text": "2011 Virginia earthquake\n\nThe 2011 Virginia earthquake was a magnitude 5.8 (M) earthquake in the U.S. state of Virginia on August 23, 2011, at 1:51 PM EDT (17:51 UTC). The focus was northwest of Richmond and from the town of Mineral, Virginia. The earthquake was along the Spotsylvania Fault, an ancient fault line that now sits in the middle of the North American plate. Four aftershocks happened within twelve hours of the main earthquake. The aftershocks had magnitudes 2.8, 2.2, 4.2 and 3.4. About 35 hours after the main earthquake, a sixth aftershock of magnitude 4.5 occurred. As of August 30, there have been 19 aftershocks, most of them minor.\n\nThere are very few strong earthquakes east of the Rockies in the U.S. This was only the second magnitude 5.8 in the last last 114 years. The other was the 1944 quake on the NY-Ontario border.\n\nPress reports show that the earthquake could be felt a long distance away from its center. To the south, the earthquake reached Atlanta, Georgia; and to the north, the earthquake reached Quebec City, Quebec. To the west, the earthquake reached Illinois and to the east, the earthquake reached Fredericton, New Brunswick. Damage was reported as far away as Burlington, New Jersey.\n\nMany buildings in the eastern United States are not built strongly enough that earthquakes cannot damage them. In Washington, D.C., the White House, the Capitol building and other buildings were evacuated. In Arlington County, Virginia, a pipe in the Pentagon broke. The pipe flooded two corridors. The Pentagon used an emergency plan put into place after the September 11 attacks to evacuate. Other buildings were evacuated in Philadelphia, Boston and New York City.\n\nSoon after the earthquake, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) ordered airplanes to stop flying along the East Coast. The Air Traffic Control tower at John F. Kennedy International Airport was evacuated. Flights were late at several airports, including John F. Kennedy International Airport, Newark Liberty International Airport, Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, Dulles International Airport, and Philadelphia International Airport. At the National Airport, ceiling tiles in the airport terminal fell to the ground, and flights stopped. Washington Metro trains were delayed and run at reduced speeds of 15 miles per hour. This allowed engineers to see if the rails were damaged. Just after the earthquake, many people made cell phone calls. This tied up the AT&T and Verizon Wireless networks. People could not start phone calls for at least 20 minutes.\n\nBuildings in the Washington, D.C. area were damaged, but not severely. The quake damaged three of the Washington National Cathedral's four pinnacles (corner spires) and cracked some of the Episcopal church's flying buttresses. However, buttresses that support the central tower, a prominent part of the city skyline, look normal. The National Park Service found cracks near the top of the Washington Monument. The monument is closed indefinitely. The earthquake knocked off four of the six spires atop the Washington D.C. Temple of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The pieces fell to the ground along with several pieces of marble from the temple's outside wall.\n\nThe two nuclear reactors at the North Anna Nuclear Generating Station, from the epicenter, shut down automatically. \n\nDamage in the northeastern United States was minor. In New York state, Governor Andrew Cuomo said the State Office of Emergency Management had no reports of damage to buildings or infrastructure. There were some disruptions, including building evacuations and delays at airports. Amtrak trains arriving and departing from Penn Station were also delayed.\n\nIn New Jersey, the state Emergency Management office reported two gas leaks in Gloucester County, with no reports of injuries from either leak. Buildings such a the Temple B'nai Israel in Burlington and a home in Camden were damaged. Government buildings were evacuated, and city workers could go home.\n\nIn Boston, the Massachusetts Emergency Management Agency reported no injuries or damage. The U.S. District Court in South Boston was evacuated and the University of Massachusetts Boston cut summer classes short and sent all workers home early.\n\nIn West Virginia, the Kanawha County Courthouse, the West Virginia State Capitol campus, and several other buildings in downtown Charleston were evacuated. Kanawha County dispatchers received more than 350 calls in 45 minutes but there were no reports of damage to buildings and infrastructure other than minor plaster cracking in the old . Part of a chimney collapsed at the county courthouse in Philippi in Barbour County. The West Virginia Office of Miners' Health Safety and Training stated that West Virginia coal mines were safe following the tremors.\n\nIn Delaware, the New Castle County Courthouse in Wilmington and Family Court in Georgetown were evacuated. The press said that blocks fell to the street from the steeple of St. Thomas the Apostle Church. DelDOT crews were sent to all parts of the state to inspect many bridges and roadways including interstate highways and the Indian River Inlet Bridge.\n\nIn Pennsylvania, people were told to get out of office buildings in Philadelphia. People were also told to get out of the Bucks County Courthouse in Doylestown. Also, SEPTA Regional Rail trains could only go while tracks were checked for damage and PATCO Speedline trains were also stopped for a short time even though there was no damage. The Pennsylvania Department of Transportation checked bridges for damage. There was no damage to the bridges over the Delaware River owned by the Delaware River Port Authority.\n\nPeople in eastern Canada also felt the earthquake, mostly in Southern Ontario, as well as parts of Quebec and the Maritimes. A few buildings in Toronto were evacuated. No accidents or damage from the earthquake were reported in Canada.\n\nAccording to Facebook, the word \"earthquake\" appeared in the status updates of 3 million users within four minutes of the quake. Twitter said users were sending up to 5,500 tweets per second. This rate of messages was faster than during the death of Osama bin Laden. It was almost the same rate as the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami.\n\n", "id": "305708", "title": "2011 Virginia earthquake"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305710", "text": "TSV Hartberg\n\nThe Turn- und Sportverein Hartberg is a football club from Hartberg, Styria. The club is playing in the First league, the second division in Austrian football. Beside the football section the club has 14 others, like chess, Judo and gymnastics.\nThe club was founded on 29 April 1946. Then the club had two parts, football and handball. In the meantime there are 14.\n\nAfter a long time in lower classes Hartberg was first promoted to the Landesliga, the highest class in Styrian football, in 1978. 1978/79 the club won the Landesliga, but failed in the relegation tournament for promotion. A year later the club reached the quarterfinals of the Austrian Cup. 1994/95 the club became champion again and was promoted to the Regionalliga Mitte (3rd division). 2006 the team became champion of the Regionalliga Mitte and was promoted to the Ersten Liga (2nd division). Due to reforms of the league Hartberg was relegated the same season. On the last day of the season 2008–2009, TSV Hartberg finished in first poisition of the Austrian third division and was promoted to the 2009–2010 second division where they play at the moment.\n\nThe second squad is playing together with FSC Eggendorf (TSV Hartberg Amateure/FSC Eggendorf ).\n\nThe club plays in the Hartberg stadium. It is a multi-purpose stadium for 6000 visitors.\n", "id": "305710", "title": "TSV Hartberg"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305714", "text": "Candidatus\n\nCandidatus is a term in the taxonomy (scientific classification) of bacteria.\n\nIt is a label put before the name of a bacterium which cannot be grown on an agar plate or in any other bacteriology culture. An example would be \"\"Candidatus\" Phytoplasma allocasuarinae\". Candidatus status may be used when a species or genus is well studied but cannot be cultured. Nowadays much information is got by 16S ribosomal RNA sequence analysis.\n\nFor correct publication of a species, bacteria must be isolated, cultured, described, and deposited in a bacteriology culture collection. However, some bacteria require special tissue culture conditions and cannot be maintained in Bacteriology Culture Collections. This includes bacteria which live inside other organisms or cells. These include obligately intracellular pathogens and endosymbionts, insect symbionts, and populations from oceans or sludge. \n\nIn 1994, Murray and Schleifer published a taxonomic note. They recommended that the new category of indefinite rank (Candidatus) be established for certain putative taxa that could not be described in sufficient detail to warrant establishment of a new taxon. It was also recommended that a Candidatus list should be established in the \"International Journal of Systematic and Evolutionary Microbiology\".\n\nAccording to the \"IRPCM Phytoplasma/Spiroplasma Working Team – Phytoplasma taxonomy group\" the abbreviation for Candidatus should be Ca.\n", "id": "305714", "title": "Candidatus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305717", "text": "Carsonella ruddii\n\nCandidatus Carsonella ruddii is an endosymbiotic gamma proteobacterium. It has the smallest known genome of any bacterium.\n\nThe species is an endosymbiont that is present in all species of phloem sap-feeding insects known as psyllids. The endosymbionts occurs in a specialised structure known as the bacteriome.\n\nIn 2006 the genome of one strain of \"Ca.\" C. ruddi was sequenced at RIKEN in Japan and the University of Arizona. The genome is a circular chromosome of 159,662 base pairs and has a high coding density (97%) with many overlapping genes and reduced gene length. The number of predicted genes was 182, also the lowest on record (NCBI-Genome). Numerous genes considered essential for life seem to be missing, suggesting that the species may have achieved organelle-like status.\n\nIn comparison, \"Mycoplasma genitalium\", which has the smallest genome of any free-living organism, has a genome of 521 genes. \n\n", "id": "305717", "title": "Carsonella ruddii"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305725", "text": "French Civil Aviation University\n\nThe French Civil Aviation University (French: \"École nationale de l'aviation civile\"), also known as ENAC, is a French public aeronautical \"grande école\" created the 28th of August 1949 and located at Biscarosse, Carcassonne, Castelnaudary, Château-Arnoux-Saint-Auban, Grenoble, Melun, Montpellier, Muret, Saint-Yan and Toulouse, in France. It is member of the \"Conférence des Grandes Écoles\", University of Toulouse, Aerospace Valley and is one the fifth founder of France AEROTECH.\n\nENAC provides training in civil aeronautics. The university has around 25 courses, including aerospace engineers, technicians, Masters, \"Mastères Spécialisés\", airline pilots, air traffic controllers, managers and flight instructors.\n\nAir travel grew rapidly in France after World War II. Safe air transport required staff trained specifically for this activity. It also required people in different sectors of the aviation world to work together and understand each other. That is why ENAC was started. Max Hymans, the secretary general of civil and commercial aviation was the chief organizer.\n\nENAC is created the 28th of August 1949 (Decree 49-1205) in Paris. The university was located at Orly, south of Paris. René Lemaire considers ENAC as \"a university of aviation safety\". This priority given to safety is natural for ENAC, being the first reason for the training of future technicians and future airmen in a single university.\n\nA report of the \"Inspection générale de l'aviation civile\" said \"It was in the minds of the creators of the univerisity, to develop between the crew and the ground staff a community of ideas, reciprocal knowledge, and esteem, that are essential for the teamwork required by air transport.\" Training courses were longer or shorter depending on specialty. \n\nThe decree of the 13th of October 1959 announces the first partner of the university: Air France. It results in a sharing of tasks and establishes a recruitment for airline pilots students with no previous flight experience. Previously, on an experimental basis, the university welcomed in 1958 the first airline pilots students. \n\nMeanwhile, ENAC developed cooperation with the \"École nationale de la météorologie\" and promoted the training of this subject for air traffic controllers. After World War II, ENAC helped the conversion of military aircrew. The \"Service de l'aviation légère et sportive\" (SALS), under the decree of the 31th of March 1951, provided free flight training for airline pilots candidates coming from the army.\n\nFrom 1949 to 1959, the number of courses held increase from 6 to 64 and the number of students from 49 to 800. in 1956 was created the navigation instructor rating, with the opening of the corresponding training. Sometimes a course is simply set to meet a need. In 1958, the airline pilots theoretical training course started.\n\nLife at ENAC Orly is then punctuated by the yearly trip for all the students, undoubtedly one of the highlights of the studies. It has its share of unexpected, but its rites, as the reception in full uniform of the university officials and the students by local authorities, on arrival at a new location.\n\nThe years 1960 - 1975 are those of a transition during which two major events happens: the move to Toulouse in 1968 where is now located the main campus and the change in status of the university, from external department of the French civil aviation administration to a public Administration institution in 1970.\n\nWhen it is created, the French Civil Aviation University is located on the close to Paris-Orly Airport. This location near the largest French airport offers many advantages :easy use of the airplanes for a lot of activities - navigation flights, promotional trips, ... and the proximity with many airlines and aircraft manufacturers or related to the aviation industry, whose managers are likely to be called for lectures, conferences, ...\n\nHowever, the very rapid growth of traffic at Paris-Orly Airport brought disadvantages. The aircraft used by ENAC, to have to be used in heavy air traffic. In the mid-1950s the first projects to implement ENAC on a new location starts to born. All involve are close cities of Parisian airports. Decentralization was among the motives. The plans for ENAC in the very close to Paris are irremediably condemned, studies are moving towards farther locations. The potential locations are all part of a 150 km radius around Paris, among other Melun, Pontoise, Coulommiers, Étampes, Reims, Évreux, Chartres, Orleans, etc.. Meanwhile, a report dated the 20th of May 1959, lists the disadvantages of a location too far from Paris: difficulties of transporting personnel, the possible increase of duration of the courses, increased operating costs... It is in this context that René Lemaire analysis, in its report dated the 14th of June 1960, the possibility of a transfer to Toulouse. It is its aeronautical and university aspects that have made the choice for this city as a new location (Toulouse 1 University Capitole, created in 1229, is one of the oldest university in the world, the \"École nationale supérieure d'ingénieurs de constructions aéronautiques\" had settled in Toulouse since 1961 and the \"École nationale supérieure de l'aéronautique et de l'espace\" was going to move from Paris to the city). It is the 15th of June 1961 that the transfer of the university in Toulouse is validated by an official decision of Prime Minister Michel Debré. It is confirmed by his successor Georges Pompidou in a letter dated the 23th of July 1963.\n\nIt was in April 1966 that began the construction of new buildings on the campus of Rangueil. The project ends the 19th of August 1968 when the staff is invited to be at the university. The academic year starts the 16th of September 1968. 500 students are expected, including 325 who start their training. These are as follows: 15 air navigation engineering students, drawn largely from \"École Polytechnique\", 70 engineering students in air navigation from two-years studies after French Baccalaureate, 60 airline pilot students, 100 air traffic controllers students, 40 electronics students, 20 commercial pilot students and 20 flight dispatcher students.\n\nAlthough it thought it is better not to decide about the status of ENAC before the university opened its doors to its new campus, the \"Commission permanente\" has taken into consideration the problem of an inadequate legal status . This problem is old : identified shortly after the creation of the university, he has resurfaced many times, as the inspection reports that relate to the management of the institution shown. ENAC is closely followed by its supervisory authority. Inspection reports are occurring at a rapid cadence, in average one every two years, sometimes more. The judgment focused on the management of the institution is sometimes severe. These same reports, in the mid-1950s, contest the existence of the university, which was not the case in the previous years. As an example, the report (confidential) of Brancourt Controller the 12th of March 1952, based on the organization and operation of ENAC. We learn that the university has \"a lack of doctrine\", that \"there is a certain tension with the training center of Air France\", and even that \"ENAC is madness\".\n\nIn reality, the weaknesses can be largely explained by the difficulties caused by the inadequacy between the status of ENAC and the nature of its business, which requires it to provide courses for students and trainees who are not all officials from its supervisory authority, or to use teaching staff from very different origin. The heavy process for allocating university budget is in trouble as soon as other types of income are reduced, such as non-public resources. This happens more in the years 1958-1964. In 1962, the management of ENAC is thinking about increasing tuition fees, courses prices and fees for customers outside from the French civil aviation authority. However, the status of the institution submits the necessary prices adjustments to an approval process so difficult that finally is blocked. That's why, another type of status, \"public administrative institution\", appears much more appropriate. The final decision is taken by Decree No. 70-347 of the 13th of April 1970, with application the 1st of January 1971. Become a public administrative institution, ENAC is endowed with a board of directors. René Lemaire is the first president.\n\nFrom 1975 a new thing is starting. It consists of an increase of the proportion of engineering students called \"civilians\" in opposition to the \"officials\" (civil servants) engineering students. ENAC is becoming a major player in the training for aerospace industry (civilian personnel), while its primary goal was only the training of officials for \"direction générale de l'aviation civile\". It is true that the existence of students for the private sector is not new at the university : it was in 1956 that are trained the first of them. At the end of 1950s, however, this recruitment affects only a minority of students. It is primarily done to compensate the disadvantage which consists of the highly different number of students to work in the administration and to prevent the size of successive promotions with a too great difference. However, this second source tends to become more and more important, to finally become the first one. This results in an revision of the teachings. ENAC engineering education, particularly that of the specialty called \"facilities\" - it focuses on electronics - seduce the industrial sectors of electronics and information technology. Without having particularly desired, the university has progressively the role of a National University of Engineers.\n\nIndustry oriented university, research appeared in 1984, following the law on Higher education which provides that \"engineering education [...] has a research activity, basic or applied,\" and is organized around four areas: electronics, automation, computer and air transport economy. The university then feels interest for future engineers to learn research methods: while the method of deductive reasoning, for a long time favored by teachers in the two-years studies after French high school diploma and universities, shows its limitations, the method of inductive reasoning, characteristic of research, appears progressively better adapted to the nature of functions performed by today's engineers. The most recent manifestation of the growing interest in research at ENAC is the creation of the air transport economics laboratory, which designation reflects the desire to study, in addition to air transport itself, certain related activities such as air navigation.\n\nThe mid 1980s saw the emergence of \"mastères spécialisés\" programs. They are born for most of them from an industrial demand, including the \"groupement des industries françaises aéronautiques et spatiales\", in order to support the export contracts by training. Indeed, while filling the needs of many French students or professionals, they can train in a relatively short period some foreign executives. The same period saw the diversification of continuing education at the university. The continuing education courses are organized in five main areas: air traffic systems, electronics, computer, aeronautics and languages/humanities.\n\nThe international dimension of the university grew in the 1990s. It is constrained, however, by the design and implementation of the new cycle for air traffic controllers. The effort required a specifically European component. It consists first in the participation in European projects such as EATCHIP (European Air Traffic control Harmonization and Integration Program), then in joining mobility programs for students such as Erasmus or Socrates. Under these programs, the university welcomes a growing number of foreign students. In doing so, it forges close relations with foreign universities, including those of Berlin and Darmstadt in Germany, as well as the one of Tampere in Finland. Since 1990, the university has new missions. Thus, ENAC negotiates new contracts for studies and research abroad. The 2000s are the years of the creation of courses entirely taught in English language and the development of activities focused on air navigation. In 2009, the university and its alumni association organize the first edition of the \"salon du livre aéronautique\" (aeronautical literary festival) in Toulouse. In December 2010, ENAC becomes an ICAO center for training in aviation security.\n\nMeanwhile, the university develops new teaching facilities: the air traffic control simulator \"CAUTRA\", the aerodrome control simulator \"AERSIM\", an Airbus A320 flight management system simulator, a static model of the Airbus A321' s engine and the laboratory of telecom networks.\n\nSince the 1st January 2011 and the merging of ENAC with the SEFA, the university is the biggest European aviation university.\n\nThe current head of the university is Marc Houalla, who was SEFA director from 2006 till the 1th of January 2011. It is the seventh person to be director since 1949. He was elected in 2008 after the departure of Gérard Rozenknop, his predecessor. The directors since 1949 are given in the following table.\n\nAs all the equivalent universities in France, ENAC is managed by a President elected by a board of directors. He is member of the three councils of the university :\n\nIn addition to these three councils, the university has a director's office which includes communication and cultural affairs, a division of information systems and a general secretariat dedicated to legal management, logistics, financial and human resources.\n\nThe university has spent for its operation 126 million euros in 2011. The budget is up 61.12% compared to 2010 as a result of its merger with the SEFA and consists of:\n\n\nIn consideration for several months, a corporate foundation has been established in September 2011. It aims to guide the training and research council on the changes to be made to the training \"Ingénieur ENAC\" (ENAC engineer) and to the corporate partnerships.\nIt consists of technical and human resources managers from aerospace companies such as Air France, Airbus, Aéroport de Paris, Rockwell Collins, Thalès, \"Aéroconseil\"...\n\nENAC has eight campuses and can provide accommodation. It also has a canteen, cafeteria, library, computer rooms, sports halls including a fitness room, a sports field, a rugby field, five tennis courts, a beach volleyball and a golf driving range. Its main campus is located at Rangueil (Toulouse).\n\nSince its merger with the SEFA, ENAC has eight locations :\n\nENAC has a fleet of 130 aircraft of different types: CAP-10, Socata TB-10, Socata TB-20, Beechcraft Baron 58, Beechcraft 200, ATR 42, Diamond DA40 (to replace the Socata TB-20) and Diamond DA42 (to replace the Beechcraft Baron 58).\n\nOn its Toulouse campus, the university has flight simulator Robin DR400 and Socata TB-20, and also some static simulators of Airbus A320 and Airbus A340.\n\nIn the air navigation department, it has control tower simulators (at 120 or 360 degrees).\n\nENAC has four Bachelor's degree courses to train pilots and aerospace technicians.\n\nENAC provide theoretical training for pilot students in eight months in its campus of Toulouse, and the practical training of 16 months, is given in the other campuses of the university in Montpellier, Carcassonne, Saint-Yan or Muret. Since 1992, graduates of this training are represented by an alumni association called AGEPAC. In parallel, the university propose a preparation for the Airline Transport Pilot Licence theory different by its purpose, allow high school students from low income families to become airline pilot, and its level of recruitment (End of high school). After that, students can prepare the Commercial pilot licence or going to he course \"technicien aéronautique d'exploitation\" (in English, aeronautical operations technician), training also accessible from two other recruitment. With a similar name but preparing for a different job, the curriculum \"technicien supérieur de l'aviation\" (in English, higher aviation Technician) allows the integration of the \"techniciens supérieurs des études et de l'exploitation de l'aviation civile\" (in English higher civil aviation operations Technicians) civil servant department or the one of the \"techniciens supérieurs de l'aviation civils\" ().\n\nIn addition, the university has seven Master's degree programs to train people for both aerospace industry and French civil aviation authority.\n\nGoing only to the civil aviation authority, the courses of Air traffic controller and Air Traffic Safety Electronics Personnel are done by the university. the \"Ingénieur ENAC\" course trains aerospace engineer in three sectors : electronics and aeronautical telecommunications (L), computer systems and air traffic (S) and aeronautical engineering (T). A small part (10 %), are civil servant engineering students. They become \"ingénieurs des études et de l'exploitation de l'aviation civile\" (civil aviation operations engineer) after the university. Since 1949, ENAC is a specialization university for \"École Polytechnique\" students.\nThus, since the 16th of April 2002 and the merger of the \"corps des ingénieurs de l'aviation civile\" (civil aviation engineer department) and thus of \" géographie et de la météorologie\" (geography and meteorology) into the Corps of Bridges and Roads, the training of managers of the French civil aviation authority has changed. The Corps of Bridges and Roads are trained at the \"École des Ponts ParisTech\" and part of the course (about 300 hours) is organized in cooperation with ENAC for students who wants to join the French civil aviation authority. Furthermore, the university has created in 2007 a Master's degree in International Air Transport Opération Management, in 2011 the course Master's degree in Global Navigation Satellite System supported by the European Commission and in 2012 the training Master's degree in Air Traffic Management in partnership with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The Master's degree in Human–computer interaction (IHM) is realized in cooperation with the Paul Sabatier University.\n\nFinally, the French Civil Aviation University provides seven \"Mastères Spécialisés\" courses in the fields : airport management, air transport management (in partnership with Toulouse Business School), communication - navigation - surveillance and satellite applications for aviation, aviation safety aircraft airworthiness (in partnership with other \"grandes écoles\"), air-ground collaborative systems engineering, aviation and air traffic management and aerospace project management (APM) (in partnership with other \"grandes écoles\").\n\nThe former students of the three Master programs, the \"Ingénieur ENAC\" course, as well as those of the Corps of Bridges and Roads and those of the \"Mastères Spécialisés\" courses was represented by an association, INGENAC, created in 1988, member of the CNISF (French scientific and engineer council) and in Toulouse. The 16th of March 2012, INGENAC decided to represent all the former students of the university and changes its name to « ENAC Alumni ».\n\nEach course of the university has its own recruitment process.\n\nBy hosting each year more than 7,500 students who participate to more than 600 courses annually organized by the university, with a turnover of 15 million of euros, ENAC is now the largest organization in Europe for aeronautical continuing education. The continuing education of ENAC has been developed in areas which ENAC is well recognized : air traffic, electronics, computer science, aeronautical engineering, aircraft control, ...\n\nStudents of the aerospace engineer course can study at the two other \"grandes écoles\" members of the \"groupement des écoles d'aéronautique\", and also at the National Polytechnic Institute of Toulouse and at Nantes business school. Moreover, as part of France AEROTECH, an exchange of third year engineering students is under elaboration with the \"grandes écoles\" of this network.\n\nIn another country, students have access to the Erasmus programme and to Pegasus. In the aerospace engineer course, the university welcomes 8% of foreign students in 2011. Considering all the courses, this number is 46% in 2010.\n\nThe university has also agreements with : Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University, Florida Institute of Technology, University of California, University of Washington, \"École africaine de la météorologie et de l'aviation civile\". It also educates people of the \"Agence pour la sécurité de la navigation aérienne en Afrique et à Madagascar\".\n\nAlso, ENAC is a founder of the \"Institut sino-européen d'ingénierie de l'aviation\" of Tianjin. On this city, the university has four \"Mastères Spécialisés\" courses at the Civil Aviation University of China only for Chinese students : airport management, aviation safety management - airworthiness, aviation safety management - flight operations and aviation safety management - aeronautical maintenance.\n\nFinally, in December 2011, the university has signed a partnership with the \"École des Ponts ParisTech\" and the \"Académie internationale Mohammed VI de l'aviation civile\" to start an Executive MBA in aviation management for aerospace people in March 2012 at Casablanca.\n\nResearch is a growing business at ENAC. Industry oriented university, it appears in 1984, following the law on higher education which provides that « engineer training...contains a research activity, pure or applied ». It was originally organized around four areas : electronics, automation, computer and air transport economy. Mid-2009, the research teams was in the following laboratories : automation - operational research (LARA), economy - air econometrics (LEEA), study - optimization of telecommunications networks architectures (LEOPART), electromagnetism for aeronautical telecommunications (LETA), interactive computer (LII), applied mathematics (LMA), air traffic optimization (LOTA) and signal processing for the aeronautical telecommunications (LTST).\n\nENAC also has, since 2005, a team specializing in UAVs that maintains and develops \"Paparazzi\", a free system for automatic control of UAVs, unmanned aerial vehicle laboratory. The infrastructure includes also a planetarium and an air traffic control simulator. ENAC is a founding member of the European academy for aviation safety (EAFAS), network of the key training organizations in the field of air safety.\nDuring the Paris Air Show of 2005, the university announces a partnership with \"Office National d'Études et de Recherches Aérospatiales\" in the fields of air traffic management, air safety, satellite navigation, sustainable development and air transport economy.\n\nEnd of 2011, the university has established a new research organization that are six transverse programs : UAVs and air traffic management, airports, aircraft and air operations, human-computer interaction, air/ground communications and sustainable development, everything is now based on four laboratories : applied mathematics - optimization - optimal control - control engineering operations research (MAIAA), signal processing - satellite positioning system - electromagnetism - networks (TELECOM), architecture - modeling - engineering of interactive systems (LII) and economics - air transport econometrics (LEEA).\n\nSeveral famous pilots have studied at the French Civil Aviation University like Émile Allegret, soldier and member of the French Resistance during the World War II, Xavier Barral (Promotion 1966), former President of the \"association des professionnels navigants de l'aviation\" (Professional aircrew association), Noël Chevrier (Promotion 1970), antistress center manager at Air France, Gérard Feldzer (Promotion 1971), former President of the \"Aéro-Club de France\", Bernard Pestel (Promotion 1972), vice president of the \"société française de droit aérien\" (French Air Law company), Béatrice Vialle (Promotion 1981), one of the two female Concorde pilot and the first French female pilot on a supersonic airliner.\n\nParticularly because of its status of a French civil servant university, some civil servant has been student at ENAC like Jean-Marc de Raffin Dourny (Promotion 1966), President of the \"organisme pour la sécurité de l'aviation civile\" (organization for the safety of civil aviation), Michel Bernard (Promotion 1967), former head of the \"Agence nationale pour l'emploi\" and former President of \"Air Inter\", Paul-Louis Arslanian (Promotion 1968), former head of the French \"Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la Sécurité de l'Aviation Civile\", Jean-Paul Troadec (Promotion 1970), head of the \"Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la Sécurité de l'Aviation Civile\", Michel Wachenheim (Promotion 1975), French ambassador.\n\nSome alumni of the university became managers like Yves Lambert (Promotion 1959), former head of Eurocontrol, Gérard Mestrallet (Promotion 1971), CEO of GDF Suez., Jean-Michel Vernhes (Promotion 1971), head of the Toulouse-Blagnac Airport, Jean-Charles Corbet (Promotion 1974), former head of \"Air Lib\", Olivier Colaïtis (Promotion 1977), President of Galileo, Lionel Guérin, founding President of Airlinair, Franck Goldnadel (Promotion 1990), head of the Paris-Charles de Gaulle Airport, Méziane Idjerouidène (Promotion 2003), general manager of Aigle Azur.\n\nFew intellectuals graduate from the university like Jacques Villiers (Promotion 1948), founder of the \"Centre d'études de la navigation aérienne\" (French air navigation center), Jean Peyrelevade (Promotion 1961), politician and business leader, Hamza Ben Driss Ottmani (Promotion 1963), Moroccan economist and writer, Alain Lefebvre (Promotion 1970), Journalist, Solenn Colléter (Promotion 1993), novelist.\n\nIn science, personalities like Gabriel Weishaupt (Promotion 1948), founding member of the \"Académie de l'air et de l'espace\", Jean Robieux, Physicist, Georges Maignan (Promotion 1955), former director of the experimental center of Eurocontrol, Gérard Desbois (Promotion 1979), younger flight engineer graduate and crew member during the first flight of the Airbus A380, have studied at the university.\n\nSome aerospace personalities teach at the university such as Hervé Hallot, meteorology teacher and co-author of \"Météorologie aéronautique\", Joel Laitselart (TAE 87), air operations teacher and former operations manager of Aeris airline, Patrick Lepourry, head of the engine department and co-author of \"Propulseurs aéronautiques\", \"Instruments de bord\" and \"Initiation à l'aéronautique\", Félix Mora-Camino, head of the control engineering department and co-author of \"Avionique - Tome 2, Système de conduite automatique et gestion du vol\" or Yves Plays (IENAC S71), head of the specialized master in air transport and co-author of \"Initiation à l'aéronautique\".\n\n\n", "id": "305725", "title": "French Civil Aviation University"}
