{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219827", "text": "Survivor: Panama\n\nSurvivor: Panama - Exile Island (\"Survivor: Exile Island\" or \"Survivor: Panama\" for short) is the twelfth season of the American reality show \"Survivor\". The season was filmed in the Pearl Islands, off the coast of Panama. This location was used before in \"\" and \"\". Filming started on October 31, 2005 and the season started being shown on TV on February 2, 2006. The season finale (last episode) was on May 14, 2006 with the votes shown live from the Ed Sullivan Theater in New York.\n\nApplications had to be given on June 17, 2005. Around August 2005, 800 people were invited for an interview by CBS. Out of these 800, 48 of them were chosen as semi-finalists to be interviewed Los Angeles in September 2005. From these 48, 16 were chosen and the show was filmed from November to December 2005.\n\nThe season had a twist that started in \"\" called Exile Island. Each week at least one player is sent to Exile Island after the reward challenge, and will return at the immunity challenge. The \"exile\" is given a single machete, a flint, a pot and a bucket of dirty water. The island also had a hidden immunity idol that could be used at tribal council after the votes have been made. This gave the person who found the idol an advantage because that person can keep the idol secret until he or she was voted off. When it's played, the person with next highest number of votes would be voted off. Terry found the idol and never needed to use it at a vote, but him having the idol seemed to influence how many other people voted.\n\nThe game started by dividing the 16 players into four tribes by gender and age: young men (Viveros, green buffs), older men (La Mina, orange buffs), young women (Bayoneta, blue buffs) and older women (Casaya, purple buffs). These four tribes were named after four islands in the Pearl Islands. During the second episode, the tribes were switched so that there would only be two tribes, Casaya, and La Mina. Bayoneta and Viveros no longer existed. The last 10 players left merged (combined) into one tribe, and called their new tribe \"Gitanos\" (black buffs), the Spanish word for \"gypsy.\" One person from each of the four starting tribes were in the final four.\n\nTina Scheer was supposed to be in \"\", but she backed out due to her son's death just before that season.\n\nOn June 8, 2006 \"Survivor: Panama\" became available on Apple's iTunes store.\n\nIn a 5-2 vote, Aras Baskauskas won against Danielle DiLorenzo to take the $1 million prize.\n\nCirie Fields was chosen from this season to return in \"\" as part of the Favorites tribe and placed 3rd. Fields also returned once again in \"\", along with Danielle DiLorenzo. Their places are unknown because the season has not been shown on TV yet.\n\n Bruce joined Casaya after the episode 2 vote, which is why he did not vote.\n\n Bruce was not chosen by a tribe. He was sent to Exile Island and would join the tribe that loses a member. He joined Casaya after Melinda was voted off.\n\nAll 16 players came on what was later told to be Exile Island for the start of the game. They were divided into four tribes based on their age and gender. Then a Reward Challenge started. With Viveros, Casaya and La Mina winning, the losing tribe, Bayoneta, had to pick one of their own to stay on Exile, who would return in time for the next Immunity Challenge. Through Rock, Paper, Scissors, it was decided among the younger women that Misty would stay at Exile Island. The older tribes did well. Tina's leadership at Casaya helped everyone get chores done. La Mina built a bonfire. However, the two younger tribes could not get anything done. At the first Immunity Challenge, Misty came back from Exile Island and pretended she found the Immunity Idol hidden there, although she didn't need to say that, because Bayoneta finished first. The male tribes La Mina and Viveros finished second and third, and Casaya going to Tribal Council. Back at Casaya, Tina caught a big fish while Ruth-Marie and Melinda wanted to vote off Cirie because they thought she was weak. At Tribal Council, Tina said that her tribemates were much lazier than her, which made everyone want to vote her out. In the end, Ruth-Marie and Melinda chose to keep Cirie in the game and vote out Tina. (3-1)\n\n\nAfter a storm, the tribes went to a Reward Challenge and were shocked to learn that the tribes would be switched. The tribes were switched so that there were only two tribes, Casaya and La Mina. Bayoneta and Viveros no longer existed. The new La Mina tribe was Austin, Dan, Misty, Nick, Ruth-Marie, Sally, and Terry. The new Casaya tribe was Aras, Bobby, Cirie, Courtney, Danielle, Melinda, and Shane. With Bruce left over because of the odd number of players, he was given immunity and was sent to Exile Island for three days until tribal council and would join the tribe that lost the next Immunity Challenge. The new La Mina Tribe won the Reward Challenge and was given a raft and fishing supplies. Although they quickly lost their new spear in deep water, La Mina won the Immunity Challenge as well. Before Tribal Council, Shane wanted to quit because of nicotine withdrawal but his new alliance of Aras, Courtney, and Danielle told him to get over it. At Tribal Council (with Bruce watching what was happening on the Jury bench), the five new Casaya members wanted vote out the older women, Cirie and Melinda, with Melinda voted out in a 5-2 vote. After Melinda was voted off, Bruce removed his old orange buff and was then given a new purple buff, joining Casaya and headed back to camp with them.\n\nAt Casaya, Bruce used extra T-shirts to make a water filtration system, meaning his tribe did not need to boil the dirty water before drinking it. It was popular with some, but Courtney didn't believe it would work. La Mina won camping essentials and the power to choose which member of Casaya would be sent to Exile Island at the Reward Challenge. They chose Bruce, thinking that him being gone would wreck the tribe. Shane's mood swings continued and started problems among his alliance. Casaya won their first Immunity Challenge, and back at La Mina, Dan and Terry got Nick and Austin to vote Misty. Her lie about getting the Hidden Immunity Idol proved to be untrue; she was voted out 5-2.\n\nBefore the Reward Challenge, Bruce, Aras and Shane returned from looking for food to find the rest of their tribe had let the fire go out. After a lesson about responsibility around the campsite, they pulled together and won the Reward Challenge for bathroom and supplies, and chose to send Terry to Exile Island, because they thought he was his team's leader. Bobby started problems with his teammates by not agreeing with how the reward should be used. La Mina tried to organzie their camp, but were having with Terry at Exile Island. Terry found the Hidden Immunity Idol, which he kept as a secret from his teammates after his return. Dan pulled in Ruth Marie as a fifth person in his alliance, but after losing another Immunity Challenge, Sally told the La Mina men that she was a more weaker player. In the end, they thought strength was more important than loyalty as Ruth Marie was voted out 4-2.\n\nBruce's \"Zen Garden\" caused problems at Casaya and Aras felt he should have been helping with camp . The tribe that won the reward challenge would get all the items that were used in the challenge: fish, rice, spices, and wine. The losing tribe will not go back to camp with nothing. They were to choose either a sack of rice or a sack of beans. La Mina lost again and Casaya chose Terry to go to Exile Island for the second time in a row. When Casaya came back to camp, they found out that their shelter was destroyed in the storm that happened during the challenge. Since the storm also got rid of their fire and they could not make another one since everything was wet, they just enjoyed what they had and ate the fish raw. Meanwhile, as La Mina ate the beans that they chose from the Reward Challenge, Austin and Nick got stomach problems. The next morning at Casaya, Danielle and Courtney found out that Bruce and Bobby spent the night sleeping in their outhouse, drinking all the wine they had won. At the Immunity Challenge, La Mina built the skull pyramid faster than Casaya, finally winning Immunity. After the immunity challenge, Shane told Bobby that Bruce was the next to go, as his tribe was worried he would join La Mina's alliance when the tribes merged (combine). He told Bobby he wasn't to go by swearing on his son's name; but, Cirie, Courtney and Danielle told him they thought Bruce could be trusted more. At tribal council, Shane voted for Aras as a \"throwaway vote\" as not to choose either side, the women of Casaya voted for Bobby. He was voted off in a 3-2-1-1 vote.\n\nAt La Mina's camp, while Austin and the other men looked for creatures they could eat from the ocean, Dan told Nick about his space flights at NASA. At Casaya, the women were talking about how disrespectful they thought Shane was. In a combined Reward and Immunity challenge Casaya won a barbecue and a trip to a local village, as well as the right to send someone from La Mina to Exile Island. Because the losing tribe would be going to Tribal Council, Sally, the only woman left in La Mina was sent to Exile Island and was given Immunity. She was not allowed to vote at Tribal Council. Although she was alone, she liked how her being gone would break up the men's alliance. Meanwhile, Casaya enjoyed their reward. They rode a boat to a village and gave some toys to children. Shane saw someone smoking and talked about giving up all his clothes just to smoke a cigarette. He ended up smoking after having to stop for a long time. Later the tribe enjoyed barbecue, played soccer, and partied. At Tribal Council, the four men talked about how tight their alliance was, and about the chance of a 2-2 tie vote. In the end, Terry voted with the younger men and Dan was voted off 3-1.\n\nLa Mina got treemail that they are to go to Casaya for the tribal merge. Before they came, Shane pulled his tribe together in an agreement to vote out the other Tribe in the next four Tribal Councils. While building a bigger shelter, Nick accidentally chipped Bruce's tooth with a machete, but Bruce was fine. Meanwhile, Terry tried to tell some Casaya members to vote with La Mina, but no one would say yes. At the Immunity Challenge, the survivors hung on a pole with only their hands and feet. Terry won, winning immunity. Before Tribal Council, Bruce named the new tribe \"Gitanos\", meaning \"gypsies\" in Spanish. Later that night, Nick, who they thought was the second strongest player (after Terry) was voted out. (6-4)\n\nWith Nick voted out, the old La Mina tribe tried to get some old Casaya members to vote with them. At the reward challenge, the players were split into three teams, and Bruce, Aras, and Sally won. Austin and Danielle were sent to Exile Island together, while the winners enjoyed a big breakfast in a rain-soaked bed. At the immunity challenge, the players competed in an obstacle course, with a few players getting removed from the challenge in each round. Terry ended up winning his second second immunity challenge in a row. Back at camp, the old La Mina tribe tried to get Bruce and Danielle to vote with them, the two outcasts of their alliance, to switch to the La Mina alliance. Terry told Danielle that she could have the immunity idol if she switched. At Tribal Council, Danielle and Bruce still voted with Casaya, and, with a 6-3 vote, got rid of Austin.\n\n\nAfter another La Mina was voted off, Sally and Terry were trying very hard to keep themselves in the game. At the Reward Challenge, the team of Bruce, Courtney, Sally, and Terry won videos from home, peanut butter & jelly sandwiches, and ice-cold milk. They chose Aras to be sent to Exile Island. Back at the camp, a worried Shane told Cirie, who's a nurse, that he was \"having problems\" with his testicles (and stripped naked in the process). When the winning team got back, they brought some of their reward with them. At the Immunity Challenge, the players had to choose between a feast of cheeseburgers, fries, and soft drinks or the immunity challenge. Bruce, Cirie, Courtney, Danielle, and Shane chose to feast. Whereas Aras, Sally, and Terry chose to participate. Terry barely won against Aras, with Sally placing third. When the Survivors got back to camp, Sally and Terry were still trying to get members of Casaya to vote with them. Although old La Mina tried, the old Casaya members still said no, and Sally was voted out 6-2.\n\n\nTerry seemed to become less happy about being outside of the Casaya alliance. In a Reward Challenge where the players voted about the other players, Courtney was shocked to find out that they thought she was the most unpopular of the tribe. By guessing what most of the tribe had chosen for their answers, Cirie won the challenge and sent Terry to Exile Island taking Aras and Danielle to share her reward. Cirie then worried about what effect her decisions might have with the other players. Back at the camp, Courtney was upset because of some of the opinions told in the challenge and Shane was upset because he hadn't been chosen by Cirie for the reward. Shane tried to ally himself with Courtney, but failed. Bruce, who had been sick for many days, had more pain. Finally, he could not take it any longer and asked for medical help. The medical team came and took him out of the game. Later that day, with the Reward winners came back, Jeff Probst brought Terry back to the camp from Exile Island and said that because Bruce was removed, there was no Immunity Challenge or Tribal Council, and Bruce would become a member of the Jury if he was in good enough shape.\n\nThe other players continued to worry about Shane's odd behavior: he had found a piece of wood and was pretending it was his BlackBerry and he was sending messages to people back home. At the Reward Challenge, Terry won a 2007 GMC Yukon, and he, Courtney and Danielle won a meal together. During their reward, Terry made a deal with Courtney and Danielle for the three of them to work together. Back at camp, Cirie went fishing and caught a big fish. After returning to camp, Danielle told Terry she was worried that if they were in the final three with Courtney, she thought he would pick Courtney to go to the final two with because she was less popular. Terry told Danielle that if either of them won the final immunity challenge, they would take the second place winner to the final two. When Courtney found out, she became upset because she felt it suggested she was being carried by other players. Terry won his fourth Immunity Challenge in a row, and the old Casaya alliance had to vote out one of their own. Shane thought the alliance wanted to vote out Danielle, but Courtney thought that her new alliance with Danielle, Terry and fourth member Cirie was voting against Aras. Cirie, who didn't like her low position in this alliance started a new alliance with Aras and Danielle to vote against Courtney. With the votes split three ways, Courtney was voted off. (3-2-1)\n\n\nPlayers competed in a Reward Challenge of obstacles from past challenges for a visit with loved ones. The winner would choose who gets what with their loved one. Terry won and he choose himself and his wife, along with Shane and his son, Boston, to spend the night at a villa. He also chose Cirie's husband H.B. to spend the night at the camp, Aras to just get a hug from his mother and Danielle to get a few words with her mom from where she was standing. After the loved ones left, the players went to the Immunity challenge. For the fifth time in a row, Terry won immunity. Back at camp, Aras wanted to break his alliance with Shane after finding out that Shane wanted to take Courtney to the final two. Aras then made an alliance with Cirie and Danielle. In the end, Shane was voted off. (3-1-1)\n\nTerry was accidentally tripped by Cirie's torch and yelled at her while she was taking care of the bonfire, but Aras protected her, saying that it was an accident. This left Terry further separated from the rest of the tribe. Aras, having won the Reward Challenge, chose to take Cirie on a luxurious yacht trip through the Panama Canal; but not before leaving with a argument with Terry as he said he was complaining every time he lost challenges and said \"disparaging comments about women.\" Both Terry and Danielle were sent to Exile Island for losing the Challenge. During their trip, Aras and Cirie talked about how they wanted to be in the Final 2 together; while Danielle and Terry also talked about their fate in the game while they were on Exile Island. Soon after returning from their reward, Cirie built her first fire. In the Immunity Challenge, Cirie and Terry were putting up a good fight but Aras ultimately won the challenge, ending Terry's Immunity winning streak. Before the tribal council, Aras apologized for what he had said after the Reward Challenge, which Terry accepted. Meanwhile, Cirie and Danielle practiced making fire, since they thought this would be the tiebreaker if there was a tie. In the end, the guess proved right as the vote did end up tied between Danielle and Cirie. With Terry not wanting to give Danielle the Hidden Immunity Idol, she and Cirie will have a fire-making challenge. However right before they started, the scene was cut, ending this episode leaving the viewers hanging.\n\nAfter trying many times to start fires that continue to wear out, Danielle won the fire starting tie-breaker, and Cirie was removed from the game. The next morning, Terry showed the now powerless Immunity Idol back at camp, and in a surprise Reward Challenge, he won a protein-enriched meal that would be useful for the last Immunity Challenge. The final three were taken to Exile Island to take part in a tribute to the players voted off before them. The three placed the old torches of the thirteen players on the big skull-shaped shelter in the center of the island and burned it in the process. Danielle won the last immunity after Terry fell off and Aras jumped off after getting a nod from Danielle. Danielle voted out Terry, thinking that she would have a better chance of winning against Aras, and because Aras was a fellow member of the old Casaya tribe. Aras and Danielle got celebrated with a feast the next day. While walking along the beach rocks, Aras fell and sliced open his hand and back, needing eight stitches. At the last Tribal Council, Aras and Danielle were asked questions, from who helped them the most in getting to the Final, as to why the other player deserved the million dollar prize more. Shane, who thought neither of the two deserved the million dollars, asked them to pick a number between one and a million. At the live reunion, Aras had won, in a 5-2 vote, and became the twelfth Sole Survivor.\n\n Sally was sent to Exile Island during the episode 6 vote, which is why she did not vote.\n\n", "id": "219827", "title": "Survivor: Panama"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219828", "text": "Germany\n\nThe Federal Republic of Germany, also called Germany (German: Bundesrepublik Deutschland or just Deutschland), is a country in Central Europe. The country's full name is sometimes shortened to the FRG (or the BRD, in German).\n\nTo the north of Germany are the North Sea, the Baltic Sea, and the country of Denmark. To the east of Germany are the countries of Poland and the Czech Republic. To the south of Germany are the countries of Austria and Switzerland. To the west of Germany are the countries of France, Luxembourg, Belgium, and the Netherlands. The total area of Germany is 357,021 square kilometres (137,847 square miles). The large majority of Germany has warm summers and cool or cold winters. In June 2013, Germany had a population of 80.6 million people. After the United States, Germany is the second most popular country for migration in the world.\n\nBefore it was called Germany, it was called Germania. In the years A.D. 900 until 1806, Germany was part of the Holy Roman Empire.\n\nFrom 1949 to 1990, Germany was made up of two countries called the Federal Republic of Germany (inf. West Germany) and the German Democratic Republic (inf. East Germany). During this time, the capital city of Berlin was divided into a west and an east part. On 13 August 1961, East Germany started building the Berlin Wall between the two parts of Berlin. West Germany was one of the countries that started the European Union.\n\nGermany gained importance as the Holy Roman Empire of the German Nation, which was the first Reich, a word translated as empire. It was started by Charlemagne who became the first Holy Roman Emperor in 800 AD, and it lasted until 1806, the time of the Napoleonic Wars.\n\nThe Second Reich was started with a treaty in 1871 in Versailles. The biggest state in the new German Empire was Prussia. The rulers were called Kaisers or \"German Emperors\", but they did not call themselves \"Emperors \"of\" Germany\". There were many smaller states in the Empire, but not Austria. Germany stayed an empire for 50 years.\n\nThe treaty of unification of Germany was made after Germany won the Franco-Prussian War with France in 1871. In World War I, Germany joined Austria-Hungary, and again declared war on France. The war became slow in the west and became trench warfare. Many men were killed on both sides without winning or losing. In the Eastern Front the soldiers fought with the Russian Empire and won there after the Russians gave up. The war ended in 1918 because the Germans could not win in the west and gave up. Germany's emperor also had to give up his power. France took Alsace from Germany and Poland got the Danzig corridor. After a revolution, the Second Reich ended and the democratic Weimar Republic began.\n\nAfter the war, there were a lot of problems with money in Germany because of the Peace Treaty of Versailles (which made Germany pay for the costs of World War I) and the worldwide Great Depression.\n\nThe Third Reich was Nazi Germany; it lasted 12 years, from 1933 to 1945. It started after Adolf Hitler became the head of government. On 23 March 1933, the Reichstag (parliament) passed the Enabling Act, which let Hitler's government command the country without help from the Reichstag and the presidency. This gave him total control of the country and the government. Hitler in effect became a dictator.\n\nHitler wanted to unify all Germans in one state, and did this by annexing places where Germans lived, such as Austria and Czechoslovakia; Hitler also wanted the land in Poland that Germany had owned before 1918. Poland refused to give it to him. The invasion of Poland started World War II on 1 September 1939. In the beginning of the war, Germany was winning. It managed to take over much of Europe. However, Germany attacked the Soviet Union in 1941 and, after the Battle of Kursk, the German Eastern Front began a slow retreat until war's end. On 8 May 1945, Germany gave up after Berlin was captured, Hitler had killed himself a week earlier. Because of the war, Germany lost a lot of German land east of the Oder-Neiße line, and for 45 years, Germany was split into West Germany and East Germany.\n\nIn 1989 there was a process of reforms in East Germany, which lead to the opening of the Berlin Wall and to the end of socialist rule in Germany. This events are known as the \"Wende\" or the \"Friedliche Revolution\" (Peaceful Revolution) in Germany. After that, East Germany joined West Germany in 1990. The new Germany is a part of the European Union.\n\nGermany is a constitutional federal democracy. Its political rules come from the 'constitution' called \"Basic Law\" (\"Grundgesetz\"), written by West Germany in 1949. It has a parliamentary system, and the parliament elects the head of government, the Federal Chancellor (\"Bundeskanzler\"). The current Chancellor, Dr Angela Merkel, is a woman who used to live in East Germany.\n\nThe people of Germany vote for the parliament, called the \"Bundestag\" (Federal Assembly), every four years. Government members of the 16 States of Germany (\"Bundesländer\") work in the \"Bundesrat\" (Federal Council). The \"Bundesrat\" can help make some laws.\n\nThe head of state is the \"Bundespräsident\" (Federal President). This person has no real powers but can order elections for the Bundestag. The current president is Frank-Walter Steinmeier (SPD).\n\nThe judiciary branch (the part of German politics that deals with courts) has a \"Bundesverfassungsgericht\" (Federal Constitutional Court). It can stop any act by the law-makers or other leaders if they feel they go against Germany's constitution.\n\nThe opposition parties are the Alliance '90/The Greens and Die Linke.\n\nGermany is one of the largest countries in Europe. It stretches from the North Sea and Baltic Sea in the north to the high mountains of the Alps in the south. The highest point is the Zugspitze on the Austrian border, at .\n\nGermany's northern part is very low and flat (lowest point: Neuendorf-Sachsenbande at ). In the middle, there are low mountain ranges covered in large forests. Between these and the Alps, there is another plain created by glaciers during the ice ages.\n\nGermany also contains parts of Europe's longest rivers, such as the Rhine (which makes up a part of Germany's western border, while Oder River is on its eastern border), the Danube and the Elbe.\n\nIn Germany there are sixteen states (\"Bundesländer\"):\n\nIn these states there are 301 \"Kreise\" (districts) and 114 independent cities, which do not belong to any district.\n\nGermany has one of the world's largest technologically powerful economies. Bringing West and East Germany together and making their economy work is still taking a long time and costing a lot of money. Germany is the largest economy in Europe. In September 2011, the inflation rate in Germany was 2.5%. The unemployment rate of Germany was 5.5% as of October 2011.\n\nGermany is one of the G8 countries. The main industry area is the Ruhr area.\n\nIn Germany live mostly Germans and many ethnic minorities. There are at least seven million people from other countries living in Germany. Some have political asylum, some are guest workers (\"Gastarbeiter\"), and some are their families. Many people from poor or dangerous countries go to Germany for safety. Many others do not get permission to live in Germany.\n\nAbout 50,000 ethnic Danish people live in Schleswig-Holstein, in the north. About 60,000 Sorbs (a Slavic people) live in Germany too, in Saxony and Brandenburg. About 12,000 people in Germany speak Frisian; this language is the closest living language to English. In northern Germany, people outside towns speak Low Saxon.\n\nMany people have come to Germany from Turkey (about 1.9 million Turks and Kurds). Other small groups of people in Germany are Croats (0.2 million), Italians (0.6 million), Greeks (0.4 million), Russians, and Poles (0.3 million). There are also some ethnic Germans who lived in the old Soviet Union (1.7 million), Poland (0.7 million), and Romania (0.3 million). These people have German passports, so they are not counted as foreigners. A lot of these people do not speak German at home.\n\nChristianity is the biggest religion; Protestants are 38% of the people (mostly in the north) and Catholics are 34% of the people (mostly in the south). There are also many Muslims, while the other people (26.3%) are either not religious, or belong to smaller religious groups. In the eastern regions, the former territory of the GDR (known as the \"DDR\" in German), only one fifth of the population is religious.\n\nGermany has one of the world's highest levels of schooling, technology, and businesses. The number of young people who attend universities is now three times more than it was after the end of World War II, and the trade and technical schools of Germany are some of the best in the world. German income is, on average, $25,000 a year, making Germany a highly middle class society. A large social welfare system gives people money when they are ill, unemployed, or similarly disadvantaged. Millions of Germans travel outside of their country each year.\n\nIn 2015 there were erroneous reports in some African, Arabic etc. media channels concerning the conditions of coming to and living in Germany. False promises of money, easy living and easy jobs were made. Germany is a very densely populated country and especially in cities the housing situation is difficult and rents are high. Already in 2014 there were 39.000 homeless people in Germany and 339.000 people without apartment. Here a link to a German video report from a German news magazine. The video is about refugees, who have been living in a sports gym in Berlin for over a year with no privacy. In the video people discuss amongst others why there are problems to find living space in containers. The containers are similar to those in Zaatari refugee camp.\n\nGermany's constitution says that all people can believe in any religion they want to, and that no one is allowed to discriminate against somebody because of the person's religion.\n\nIn ancient times Germany was largely pagan. Roman Catholicism was the biggest religion in Germany up to the 15th century, but a major religious change called the Reformation changed this. In 1517, Martin Luther said that the Catholic Church used religion to make money. Luther started Protestantism, which is as big as the Catholic religion in Germany today. Before World War II, about two-thirds of the German people were Protestant and one-thirds were Roman Catholic. In the north and northeast of Germany, there were a lot more Protestants than Catholics. Today, about two-thirds of German people (more than 55 million people) call themselves Christian, but most of them do not practice it. About half of them are Protestants and about half are Roman Catholics. Most German Protestants are members of the Evangelical Church in Germany. The previous Pope, Benedict XVI, was born in Germany.\n\nBefore World War II, about one percent of the country's people were German Jews. Today, Germany has the fastest-growing group of Jewish people in the world. Many of them are in Berlin. Ten thousand Jews have moved to Germany since the fall of the Berlin Wall; many came from countries that were in the Soviet Union. Schools teaching about the horrible things that happened when the Nazis were in power, as well as teaching against the ideas of the Nazis, has helped to make Germany very tolerant towards other people and cultures, and now many people move there from countries that may not be so tolerant.\n\nAbout three million Muslims live in Germany, 3.7% of the total population. The country also has a large atheist and agnostic population, and there are also Jain, Buddhist and Zoroastrian communities. The 20th century has also seen a neopagan revival.\n\nGermany has a long history of poets, thinkers, artists, and so on. There are 240 supported theaters, hundreds of orchestras, thousands of museums and over 25,000 libraries in Germany. Millions of tourists visit these attractions every year.\n\nGermany has created a high level of gender equality, disability rights, and accepts homosexuality. Gay marriage is somewhat legal in Germany.\n\nGermany is also known for their food. Their food varies from region to region. For example, in the southern regions, such as Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg, they share their type of food with Switzerland and Austria. Everywhere in Germany, meat is eaten as a sausage. Even though wine use is increasing, the national alcoholic drink is beer. The number of Germans who drink beer is one of the highest in the world. German restaurants are also rated the second-best, with France rated first place.\n\nFootball is the most popular sport in Germany. The national team has won the FIFA World Cup 4 times (1954, 1974, 1990 and 2014), and appears in the finals a lot. The team also has had the most Euro titles than any other country. The top football league in Germany is Bundesliga. Also, the German Football Association (\"Deutscher Fußball-Bund\") is the largest in the world. Some of the world's best Footballers came from Germany. These would include Miroslav Klose, Oliver Kahn, Gerd Müller, Michael Ballack, Bastian Schweinsteiger, Franz Beckenbauer, and so on. Plus, many tournaments have taken place in Germany. The most recent was the 2006 FIFA World Cup, and the 2011 FIFA Women's World Cup. The Audi Cup takes place in Germany every year in Munich.\n\nGermany is also known for its motor sports. The country has made companies like the BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Audi, etc. Successful German racing drivers include Michael Schumacher and Sebastian Vettel.\n\nSuccessful tennis players have also come from Germany, including Steffi Graf and Boris Becker. More recently, Sabine Lisicki reached the Women's Singles final at Wimbledon in 2013.\n\nLastly, Germany is one of the best countries in the Olympic Games. Germany is the third in the list of the most Olympic Games medals in history (mixed with West and East Germany medals). The country finished first place in the 2006 Winter Olympics, and second in the 2010 Winter Olympics. Germany got fifth place in the 2008 Summer Olympics.\n\n\n", "id": "219828", "title": "Germany"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219830", "text": "Harry Potter\n\nHarry Potter is a series of seven fantasy novels by J. K. Rowling, a British author. It is named for its protagonist and hero, the fictional Harry Potter.\n\nThe seven books in the series have sold over 500 million copies across the world in over 70 languages, and is the best-selling book series of all time. All of them have been made into a series of eight feature films (there were two films for the last book) by Warner Bros. which is among the world's highest-grossing film series. There have been many other spin-off products that come from Harry Potter as well, turning Harry Potter into one of the world's most popular media franchises.\n\nHarry Potter is a boy who was born from two loving parents, Lily and James Potter. Harry, like his parents, is a wizard. When Harry was one year old, his parents were killed by a dark (evil) wizard named Lord Voldemort. Voldemort had heard a prophecy that his greatest enemy would be a boy who sounded like Harry. It is later revealed that the prophecy also could have been Neville Longbottom. Voldemort fails to kill Harry and disappears. After the deaths of his parents, he was raised by his non-magical aunt (muggle), uncle, and cousin and they didn't treat him well. As a child, he did not know he was a wizard. He eventually discovers that there are many magical people, living secretly and hiding from non-wizards (known as \"Muggles\"). When Harry turned eleven, he received a letter inviting him to go to a boarding school called Hogwarts for young witches and wizards. Each book tells the story of one year of his life at the school. At school, he meets Ron and Hermione, his two best friends, along with many other characters. Voldemort tries several times to return, before finally succeeding in the fourth book. The series revolves around Harry trying to defeat Voldemort for good.\n\nThere are seven books. A series of eight movies based on the novels has been made by Warner Bros. They started making the movies in 2001. The first one was released on November 16th 2001. The second, third, fourth, and fifth were released respectively on 2002, 2004, 2006 and 2007. The sixth movie, Harry Potter and the Half Blood Prince, was released on July 7, 2009. The final movie was divided into two parts. The first part, \"Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 1\", was released in late November, 2010. Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows: Part 2 was released in July, 2011. Watch Harry Potter in 99 Seconds.\n\n\n\n\"Harry Potter and the Cursed Child, Parts I & II,\" is a new play based on a new story by J.K Rowling, Jack Thorne, and John Tiffany. It is billed as being the \"eighth story, nineteen years later.\" It stars Jamie Parker as Harry, Noma Dumezweni as Hermione, and Paul Thornley as Ron.\n\nThe play officially opens July 30, 2016 at the Palace Theatre in London.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "219830", "title": "Harry Potter"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219832", "text": "Spain\n\nSpain is a country in Southern Europe. It is in the Iberian Peninsula near Portugal and Gibraltar. France and the country of Andorra are on its northeast side, where the Pyrenees mountains are.\n\nThe people of Spain are called \"Spaniards\". Most people there speak Spanish (in Spanish, \"Castellano\", from \"Castilla\", or \"Español\") but there are other languages in different parts of the country. They are Catalan, Basque, and Galician, Leonese, Aragonese, Aranese Occitan and even Portuguese. The religion of most of the people in Spain is Roman Catholic.\n\nSince 1975, Spain has had a constitutional monarchy. The King of Spain is Felipe VI. He only does what the constitution allows him to. The parliament is called \"Las Cortes Generales\", and has two bodies: \"El Congreso\" (The Congress) and \"El Senado\" (The Senate) and it is chosen by the Spanish people by voting. The Prime minister is Mariano Rajoy. The government and the king's palace are in Madrid, the capital of Spain.\n\nSpain has more than five hundred thousand square kilometres of land. It is smaller than France, but it is bigger than Sweden or Germany. Almost fifty million people live in Spain. Spain has 17 parts called autonomous communities (this means that they can decide upon some affairs themselves). Each part has its own government.\n\nPeople have lived in Spain for a long time. There have been people living there since the Stone Age. Later, the Roman Empire controlled Spain for about five hundred years; then as the Roman Empire broke up, groups of Germanic people including Visigoths moved in and took control.\n\nIn 711, the Umayyads took over, and later groups from North Africa, called the Moors. At first the Muslims ruled most of Spain but the reconquista slowly forced them out over seven centuries. They called the land Al-Andalus. They were Muslims, and Muslim Spain was the farthest western point of Islamic civilization. The Caliphate of Córdoba fell apart in the early 11th century and Muslim rulers sometimes fought each other when they weren't fighting the Christians. Muslim Spain was focused on learning. The greatest library system outside Baghdad was also there.\n\nThe Kingdom of León, the most important in early Spanish Middle Ages, was born in 910. This Kingdom developed the first democratic parliament (Cortes de Llión) in Europe in 1188, where the third state was represented, and developed an economic system in 1202 where the monetary system was fixed. After 1301, León had the same King as the Kingdom of Castile, and kept as an independent territory until 1833, when Spain was divided into regions and provinces.\n\nIn 1492, they took the last part of Spain that still belonged to the Moors, Granada. Boabdil, the last Moorish King of Granada, surrendered to King Ferdinand II of Aragon and Isabella I of Castile on 2 January 1492. It was Ferdinand and Isabella of Castile who now ruled all of Spain.\n\nBefore this, there were a number of Christian countries in what is now called Spain. Two of these countries, Castile and Aragon, came together when Ferdinand II of Aragon married the queen Isabella of Castile. It is very important to know that the King ruled as much as the Queen.\nIn the same year, 1492, they sent Christopher Columbus to sail across the Atlantic Ocean. Columbus found the islands of the Caribbean Sea.\n\nWhen other European sailors explored, like Hernán Cortés and Francisco Pizarro, they found out that there were two continents there - North America and South America. Spain sent many soldiers and businessmen to North and South America, and they took over very large parts of those two continents. This empire did not make Spain a rich country, for most of the money had to be spent in wars. Many of these wars were fought against other European countries who were trying to take over parts of the Americas.\n\nMeanwhile, at home, the Muslim manuscripts had been either burnt or taken to other countries. Jews had also been expelled from Spain. Some Jews remained but they had to become Christians. Among the few things kept and respected in Spain were in music: harmony and stringed instruments. The buildings that had been built by the Moors were kept, and many Muslim religious buildings (mosques) were turned into churches. Some Jewish religious buildings were also turned into churches. Many Arab words became part of the Spanish Language.\n\nThe grandson of Ferdinand and Isabella was Charles. When his grandfather died he inherited Castille and Aragon. He also inherited many territories at the death of his other grandfather, Maximilian I of Austria. Charles received from Maximilian the Austria state and the territories of Burgundy. He was named Charles I in Spain, but he was elected as the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire, and was called Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor. This made the empire bigger than ever. However, it was not a single country, but a personal union of many independent countries with a single King. At first many Spaniards did not want Charles as their king, so they fought against him. However, he won.\n\nCharles did not like the Protestant Reformation, and fought against it.\n\nIn the 18th century some of the parts of that large empire became their own countries, or were taken over by new countries, such as the United States of America.\n\nSpain (and other European countries) was invaded by Napoleon of France. Spain, Britain and Europe sent its troops to defend the peninsula, since it was so weak.\n\nThere was not much peace in Spain during the first part of the 20th century. Some Spaniards tried to set up a government chosen by the people (a democracy), and they made Alfonso XIII leave the country. However, in 1936, two different groups of Spaniards went to war over whether the government should be a democracy, in the Spanish Civil War (although those on the side of the Republic were largely socialist or anarchist), or take orders from one person. In 1939, those who wanted democracy were defeated, and a nationalist dictator named Francisco Franco took over the government.\n\nFrancisco Franco died on 20 November 1975. He had decided that Spain should have a monarchy again, and he chose Juan Carlos, the grandson of Juan of Bourbon who had been forced to leave the country, to be king and Adolfo Suárez to become its first Prime Minister. But the king and Suárez did not rule as a dictator; instead, they chose to set up a democracy.\n\nOn 23 February 1981 a group of people who had supported the now dead General Franco tried to take control of the democratic Spanish Parliament by force, they entered the building and fired guns in the air. It was seen live on Spanish television and there was widespread fear that this might be the start of another civil war. However, Juan Carlos I, quickly appeared on television and broadcast to the nation that they should remain calm. The persons responsible for the attempt to take over the country were arrested.\n\nNow Spain is a modern democratic country, and does business with many countries around the world. It is the eighth largest economy in the world and is an important part of the European Union.\n\nOn 2 June 2014, Juan Carlos I announced that he would abdicate in favour of his son, Felipe VI. The date of abdication and handover to Felipe occurred on 19 June 2014. He and his wife kept their titles.\n\nAncient religions in Spain were mostly pagan. Today, however, at least 94 percent of Spain is Roman Catholic. Spanish mystic Teresa of Ávila is an important figure within Catholicism. The second largest Christian group is Orthodox. Other religions represented include Muslim, Baha'i Buddhists, Jain, Zoroastrianism and Unitarian Universalism. The country also has large atheist and agnostic communities.\n\nThe middle of Spain is a high, dry, flat land called La Meseta. In La Meseta it can be very hot in the summer and cold or very cold in the winter. Spain also has many mountain ranges. The Mount Teide (Tenerife, Canary Islands), the highest mountain of Spain and the islands of the Atlantic (it is the third largest volcano in the world from its base). In the north there is a range of mountains called \"Los Picos de Europa\" (The European Peaks). Here it is very cold in winter with a lot of snow but with gentle warm summers.\n\nIn the south-east of the country is a range of mountains called \"La Sierra Nevada\" (The Snowy Mountains). This range of mountains contains the highest mountain in mainland Spain, Mulacen, at 2952 metres. La Sierra Nevada is very popular in winter for winter sports, especially skiing. Snow remains on its peaks throughout the year. The south coast, has a warm and temperate climate, not very hot or very cold. Since Spain is in the south of Europe, it is very sunny. Many people from Northern Europe take their vacations in Spain, enjoying its beaches and cities.\n\nSpain has a border with Portugal in the west and borders with France and Andorra in the North. In the south, it borders Gibraltar, a British territory. The Spanish territories of Ceuta and Melilla are in North Africa and border onto Morocco.\n\nSpain is divided into Autonomous Communities, which means that they have their own regional governments. They are Andalucía (capital city Seville), Aragon (capital city Zaragoza), Asturias (capital city Oviedo), Balearic Islands (capital city Palma de Mallorca), Basque Country (capital city Vitoria), Canary Islands (capital cities Santa Cruz de Tenerife and Las Palmas), Cantabria (capital city Santander), Castilla-La Mancha (capital city Toledo), Castile and Leon (capital city Valladolid), Catalonia (capital city Barcelona), Extremadura (capital city Merida), Galicia (capital city Santiago de Compostela), La Rioja (capital city Logrono), Madrid Community (capital city Madrid), Murcia Community (capital city Murcia), Navarra (capital city Pamplona) and the Valencia Community (capital city Valencia).\n\nIn Spain, many people live in cities or close to cities. The ten biggest city areas are:\n\nWhile Spanish is the most spoken language in the country, other languages like Catalan, Basque or Galician are also spoken in a few territories.\n", "id": "219832", "title": "Spain"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219834", "text": "World War I\n\nWorld War I (or the First World War) was a global war which began on July 28, 1914 and lasted until November 11, 1918. The war lasted exactly four years, three months and 14 days. \n\nMost of the fighting was in Europe, but soldiers from many other countries took part, and it changed the colonial empires of the European powers. Before World War II began in 1939, World War I was called the Great War, the World War or the 'war to end all wars'. 135 countries took part in World War I, and more than 9 million people died while fighting. \n\nWorld War I was fought by most of the countries of Europe. The actual fighting was on many different fronts. The Western Front was where most of the fighting between Germany and the Allies happened. Most of the fighting here was trench warfare. \n\nThe Eastern Front was fought in Central and Eastern Europe and was one of the main places where World War I took place. The fighting on the Eastern Front was not trench warfare but mobile warfare. The other fronts that had a lot of fighting include the Middle Eastern Front and the Italian Front. Fighting also took place in Africa, China, and at sea as well as in the air.\n\nThe war was ended by the signing of many different treaties, the most important being the Treaty of Versailles.\n\nWorld War I was the first major war where tanks, aeroplanes, and submarines or (U-boats) were used as weapons.\n\nIn the organization, one person who strongly supported Serbian power sent men to kill Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria. They all failed to kill him with grenades while he passed through a large crowd but one of these men, a Serbian student named Gavrilo Princip, shot him and his pregnant wife with a pistol.\n\nAustria-Hungary blamed Serbia for the assassination. Germany, which supported Austria-Hungary, said that they should make a list of things that Serbia should do as punishment for killing the Archduke. Austria-Hungary was very strict with these rules, possibly because they wanted an excuse to start the war. Though Serbia agreed to most of the ten things on the list, they could not agree to them all. Austria-Hungary then declared war on Serbia. This quickly led to a full-scale war. Both countries' allies became involved in the war.\n\nRussia joined the war on Serbia's side because the people of Serbia were Slavic, like Russia, and the Slavic countries had agreed to help each other if they were attacked. Since Russia is a large country it had to move soldiers closer to the war, but Germany feared that Russia's soldiers would also attack Germany. Russia did not like Germany because of things Germany had done in the past to become stronger. Germany declared war on Russia, and began to carry out a plan created long before to fight a war in Europe. Because Germany is in the middle of Europe, Germany could not attack to the east towards Russia without weakening itself in the west, towards France. Germany's plan involved quickly defeating France in the west before Russia was ready to fight, and then moving her armies to the east to face Russia. Germany could not quickly invade France directly, because France had put a lot of forts on the border, so Germany invaded the neighboring country of Belgium to then invade France through the undefended French/Belgian border.\n\nGreat Britain then joined the war because Great Britain had agreed to help Belgium if it were ever attacked by someone else.\n\nSoon most of Europe became involved.\n\nGermany was friends with Austria-Hungary. Russia was friends with Serbia. The German government was afraid that because Austria-Hungary had attacked Serbia, Russia would attack Austria-Hungary to help Serbia. Because of this, Germany felt it had to help Austria-Hungary by attacking Russia first, before it could attack Austria-Hungary. \n\nThe problem was that Russia was also friends with France, and the Germans thought the French might attack them to help Russia. So the Germans decided that they could win the war if they attacked France first, and quickly. They could mobilize very quickly. They had a list of all the men who had to join the army, and where those men had to go, and the times of every train that would carry those men to where they would have to fight. France was doing the same thing, but could not do it as quickly. The Germans thought that if they attacked France first, they could 'knock France' out of the war before Russia could attack them.\n\nRussia had a big army, but Germany thought that it would take six weeks to mobilize and a long time before they could attack the Central Powers. That wasn't true, because the Russian Army mobilized in ten days. Also, the Russians drove deep into Austria.\n\nGreat Britain was allied with Belgium, and became quickly involved in the war. Germany attacked Belgium to reach Paris before Russia could mobilize and open up a second front against them. On August 4, 1914, Britain declared war against Germany in support of Belgium. Britain had the biggest empire (it ruled over a quarter of the world). If Germany conquered France, it might take Britain and France's colonies and become the most powerful and biggest empire in the world. \n\nBritain was also worried about Germany's growing military power. Germany was developing its large army into one of the most powerful in the world. The British Army was quite small. The British Royal Navy was the largest and best in the world, and in the 19th century that was enough to keep other naval powers from attacking. Germany was a land power, and Britain was a sea power. But now the Germans were building a large navy. This was seen as a threat to Britain. However, the decision to declare war was taken under its alliance with Belgium in the Treaty of London (1839). The Government might have decided differently. No-one foresaw how long the war would last, and what the terrible costs would be.\n\nThe Ottoman empire (Turkey) went into the war because it was secretly allied to Germany and two Turkish warships manned by German Navy personnel bombarded Russian towns. \n\nBritain also fought against Turkey because the Ottoman Empire was supporting Germany. Britain did not have any animosity towards the Turks. However, by fighting the Turks in the Mesopotamia region (in what is now called Iraq), in the Arabian Peninsula and other places, Britain was able to defeat them with help from the British Indian Army. Later, after the War ended, Britain was able to get some areas from the old Turkish empire which was breaking up, and to add them to the British Empire.\n\nGreece went into the war because its leader supported the Allied cause. Greece and Serbia had become independent, but many Greeks still lived in lands that were once Greek but were now in the Turkish Ottoman Empire. Having recently won the Balkan Wars, the Greeks especially wanted to control other land to the north that was under Bulgarian and Turkish rule, so they declared war. Turkey killed most of the Greek army as the Greeks tried to regain parts of Turkey. Another war started when the Greeks bombed a train. Turkey swept Greece back into their own territory. From then on the Greeks never again declared war, while Turkey had one of the biggest armies in the world.\n\nBulgaria, like Greece and Serbia, was owned by Turkey before, got its freedom and took a lot of Turkish land. When Bulgaria took this land, a short time before the war, the Serbians and Greeks felt cheated because the Bulgarians got a lot of land which they felt was Greek or Serbian. The Greeks and Serbians took back Bulgarian land and enraged Bulgaria, which made Bulgaria become allies with Turkey. They declared war on Serbia and Greece which they lost.\n\nRomania was on the side of the Central powers until 1916, when they were forced into the war by the Allied powers.\n\nMost people thought the war would be short. They thought the armies would move around quickly to attack each other and one would defeat the other without too many people getting killed. They thought the war would be about brave soldiers — they did not understand how war had changed. Only a few people like Lord Kitchener said that the war would take a long time.\n\nGermany's generals had decided that the best way to defeat France was to go through Belgium using a plan called the \"Schlieffen Plan\". This was invented by the German Army Chief of Staff, Alfred Von Schlieffen. They could then attack the French army at the north side and the south side at the same time. The German Army went into Belgium on August the 4th. On the same day, Great Britain started a war on Germany, because Britain was a friend of Belgium. The British had said some time before, in 1839, that they would not let anyone control Belgium, and they kept their promise.\n\nWhen the Germans got to the Belgian city of Liège, the Belgians fought very hard to stop them from coming into the city. The Germans did finally push the Belgians out of the city, but it had taken longer than the German generals had planned. Then the Germans attacked the north side of the French army. The French and the British moved men up to fight the Germans. They could do this because the Belgians had fought so long at Liège. But the Germans pushed the French back at the frontiers, and the British held the Germans back at Mons, but afterwards they also fell back to join up with the retreating French army, until they were stopped at the river Marne. This was the First Battle of the Marne or \"Miracle of the Marne.\n\nIn the East, the Russians had attacked the Germans. The Russians pushed back the Germans, but then the Germans defeated the Russians at the Battle of Tannenberg.\n\nTrench warfare killed great numbers of soldiers. New weapons, such as machine guns, and long-range artillery had an increased rate of fire that cut down huge numbers of soldiers during mass charges, a tactic leftover from older warfare. The men on both sides took spades and dug holes, because they did not want to be killed. The holes joined up into trenches, until the lines of trenches went all the way from Switzerland to the North Sea. In front of the trenches, there was barbed wire that cut anyone who tried to climb over it, and land mines that blew up anyone who tried to cross. Late in the war, poison gas was also an important weapon.\n\nThe new machine guns, artillery, trenches and mines made it very difficult to attack. The generals had fought many wars without these, so they ordered their armies to attack in the old style of marching in rows- allowing the enemy to shoot them down easily. At the Battle of the Somme in 1916 60,000 British men died in a single day. It was one of the bloodiest days in the history of the British army. Late in the war the British and French invented tanks and used them to attack entrenched Germans but could not make enough of them to make a big difference. The Germans invented special Sturmabteilung tactics to infiltrate enemy positions, but they also were too little, too late.\n\nThe British used whistles to communicate to other soldiers, so before they shelled the German trenches, they would sound the whistle. However, the Germans caught on to this tactic after a while, so after the shelling, when the British soldiers came to finish off the German soldiers, the Germans were ready with their machine guns, because they knew the British were coming.\n\nAirplanes were first used extensively in World War I. Airplanes were not used very much in fighting before World War I. It was the first war to use airplanes as weapons. Airplanes were first used for reconnaissance, to take pictures of enemy land and to direct artillery. Generals, military leaders, were using airplanes as an important part of their attack plans at the end of the war. World War I showed that airplanes could be important war weapons.\n\nAirplanes in World War I were made of wood and canvas, a type of rough cloth. They did not last for a long time. They could not fly very fast at the beginning of the war. They could only fly up to 116 kilometers per hour, or 72 miles per hour. At the end of the war they could fly up to 222 kilometers per hour, or 138 miles per hour. But they could not fly as fast as planes today. Guns were put on planes for the first time during the war. Pilots, people who fly the plane, used the guns to shoot enemy planes. One pilot used metal sheets, pieces of metal, to armor his airplane. Other pilots began using metal sheets, too. Pilots also made their airplanes better with machine guns, guns that shoot bullets much faster. Machine guns made fighting harder and more dangerous between airplanes.\n\nPilots had to wear certain clothes when flying an airplane in World War I because they flew high where the air is cold. The pilot's clothes kept them warm and protected them from the wind and cold. Pilots wore a leather coat to protect their bodies. They wore a padded helmet and goggles, large glasses with special lenses, to protect their head and face. They wore a scarf around their neck. The scarf kept the wind from blowing against their neck when they turned their head.\n\nThe German leaders decided to use submarines. These submarines were named U-boats, from the German word Unterseeboot (meaning underwater boat). The U-boats attacked passenger ships such as RMS Lusitania carrying civilians to Great Britain, and did not follow the laws of war. The Germans thought America was selling weapons to the British only, and not being neutral. \"Neutral\" means a country is not involved in the war. But many American and British noncombatants were killed by the submarines. \n\nGermany also wrote a secret telegram note to Mexico in code suggesting that the two countries work together to attack the United States. This note is called the Zimmerman Telegram because the person who sent it was named Arthur Zimmerman. It offered Mexico land in the southwestern United States that the United States took in previous wars. Spies from the United Kingdom found out about the note and told the United States. American people became angry and many decided that they wanted their country to enter the war against Germany. For these and other reasons, on April 6, 1917 the United States declared war against Germany and became part of the Allies.\n\nThe defeat of Russia on the Eastern Front (World War I) caused unrest inside the Empire. \n\nIn 1917, there was a revolution in Russia. The Tsar Nicholas II had to say he would not be Tsar any more, and that the people should have power. At first it was thought that Russia would fight harder now that the Tsar was gone. However, the Russian people didn't want to fight anymore, because there was not sufficient food, appropriate armament, or adequate roads to supply its army. The war had been putting burdens on them, and many of them were poor and hungry. They began to hate their new government because it wouldn't stop the war.\n\nThen, there was the October Revolution. Two factions fought to rule over Russia. The Mensheviks lost against the Bolsheviks. The leader of the Bolsheviks was Vladimir Lenin (1870-1924) a Communist who followed the ideas of Karl Marx. The new government asked the Germans for peace and signed a peace treaty called Brest-Litovsk with the Central Powers in March 1918 at the city of Brest-Litovsk. The Germans and Russians stopped fighting. This gave Germany land in Eastern Europe and the Baltic Sea.\n\nAfter the war, the Germans had to agree to the Treaty of Versailles. Germany had to pay approximately $31.5 billion in reparations. They also had to take responsibility for the war. Part of the treaty said the countries of the world should come together to make an international organization to stop wars from happening. This organization was called the League of Nations. The United States Senate didn't agree with this, even though it was the idea of the US president, Woodrow Wilson. Woodrow Wilson tried to tell the American people that they should agree, but the United States never joined the League of Nations. Problems with the Treaty in Germany would later lead to the Second World War.\n\n", "id": "219834", "title": "World War I"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219837", "text": "World War II\n\nWorld War II (WWII), also called the Second World War and, in Russia, the Great Patriotic War, was a war involving fighting in many parts of the world and many countries. Most countries fought 1939–1945 but some started fighting in 1937. Most of the world's countries, including all the great powers, fought as part of two military alliances: the Allies and the Axis Powers. It involved more countries, cost more money, and killed more people than any other war in human history. Between 30 and 50 million people died. The majority were civilians.\n\nThe start of the war in Asia was when the Empire of Japan invaded China on 7 July 1937, as the start.\nThe start of the war in Europe was when Germany invaded Poland on 1 September 1939. France and Britain reacted to the German invasion of Poland by declaring war on Germany. The United States reacted to the Japanese invasion of China by placing an oil embargo on Japan. By 1941, much of Europe was under German control. Only Britain remained fighting against the Axis in North Africa, the Mediterranean, and the Atlantic. In June 1941, the Axis Powers invaded the Soviet Union, starting the largest area of war in history. In December 1941, Japan attacked Western colonies in the Pacific.\n\nThe Japanese victories were stopped in 1942, and the European Axis victories were also stopped by 1943, both in North Africa and in the Soviet Union. After that, the Allies started to fight back from all sides. The Axis lost North Africa and, starting in 1943, were forced to defend Italy. In 1944, the Allies invaded France, heading towards Germany, while the Soviets kept closing in from the East. Germany surrendered in May 1945. Japan formally surrendered on 2 September 1945. The war ended with the Allied victory.\n\nAfter the war, the United Nations was set up to develop support between countries and to prevent future wars. The Cold War among the major winners soon started, but they did not fight each other in an actual war. Decolonization of Asia and Africa, where those countries controlled by European countries were given their independence, happened as well. This was because European power was weakened from the war. Economic recovery and the political integration (the process of uniting countries) were among other results of the war.\n\nThe countries that joined the war were on one of two sides: the Axis and the Allies.\n\nThe Axis Powers at the start of the war were Germany, Italy and Japan. There were many meetings to create the alliance between these countries. Finland, Slovakia, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, and Thailand joined the Axis later. As the war continued, some Axis countries changed to join the Allies instead.\n\nThe Allied Powers were the United Kingdom and some Commonwealth members, France, Poland, Yugoslavia, Greece, Belgium and China at the start of the war. In June 1941, the Soviet Union joined the Allies, after Germany attacked it. On 11 December 1941, four days after Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, the United States joined the Allies.\n\nWorld War I had greatly changed the way of diplomacy and politics in Asia, Europe, and Africa with the defeat of the Central Powers. Empires which sided with the Central Powers were destroyed. The Russian Empire, which did not side with the Central Powers, died as well. The war also changed the borders in Eastern Europe, with many new countries born. The war led to strong irredentism and revanchism in Europe. These senses were especially strong in Germany, which had no choice but to sign the Treaty of Versailles. The Germans also had 13% of their homeland area and all colonies taken away, and they had to pay back a very large sum of money to the Allies. The size of their army and navy was also limited, while its air force was completely banned. Lenin died and Stalin succeeded him as leader of the Soviet Union.\n\nIn Italy, nationalists were unhappy with the outcome of the war, thinking that their country should have gained far more territory from the past agreement with the Allies. The fascist movement in the 1920s brought Mussolini to the leadership of the country. He promised to make Italy a great power by creating its colonial empire.\n\nAfter the Kuomintang (KMT), the governing party of China, unified the country in the 1920s, the civil war between it and its past ally Communist Party of China began. In 1931, Japan used the Mukden Incident as a reason to take Manchuria and set up its puppet state, Manchukuo, while the League of Nations could not do anything to stop it. The Tanggu Truce, a ceasefire, was signed in 1933. In 1936, the KMT and the communists agreed to stop fighting against each other to fight Japan instead. In 1937, Japan started a Second Sino-Japanese War to take the rest of China.\nAfter the German Empire was disestablished, the democratic Weimar Republic was set up. There were disagreements between the Germans which involved many political ideologies, ranging from nationalism to communism. The fascist movement in Germany rose because of the Great Depression. Adolf Hitler, leader of the Nazi Party, became the Chancellor in 1933. After the Reichstag fire, Hitler created a totalitarian state, where there is only one party by law. Hitler wanted to change the world order and quickly rebuilt the army, navy and air force, especially after Saarland was reunited in 1935. In March 1936, Hitler sent the army to Rhineland. The Spanish Civil War began in July 1936. The war ended with the nationalist victory, supported by Italy and Germany.\n\nIn March 1938, Germany sent its army into Austria, which had only a little reaction from European countries. Shortly after that, the Allies agreed to give Sudetenland, part of Czechoslovakia, to Germany, so that Hitler would promise to stop taking more land. But the rest of the country was either forced to surrender or invaded by March 1939. The Allies now tried to stop him, by promising to help Poland if it was attacked. Just before the war, Germany and the Soviet Union signed a peace agreement, agreeing that they would not attack each other for ten years. In the secret part of it, they agreed to divide Eastern Europe between them.\n\nWorld War II began on 1 September 1939, as Germany invaded Poland. On 3 September, Britain, France, and the members of the Commonwealth declared war on Germany. They could not help Poland much and only sent a small French attack on Germany from the West. The Soviet Union invaded eastern Poland soon after Germany, on 17 September. Finally, Poland was divided.\n\nGermany then signed an agreement to work together with the Soviet Union. The Soviet Union forced the Baltic countries to allow it to keep Soviet soldiers in their countries. Finland did not accept the Soviet call for its land, so it was attacked in November 1939. With peace, the world war broke out. France and Britain thought that the Soviet Union might enter the war on the side of Germany and drove the Soviet Union out of the League of Nations.\n\nAfter Poland was defeated, the \"Phoney War\" began in Western Europe. While British soldiers were sent to the Continent, there were no big battles fought between two sides. Then, in April 1940, Germany decided to attack Norway and Denmark so that it would be safer to transport iron ore from Sweden. The British and French sent an army to disrupt the German occupation, but had to leave when Germany invaded France. Chamberlain was replaced by Churchill as Prime Minister of United Kingdom in May 1940 because the British were unhappy with his work.\n\nOn 10 May, Germany invaded France, Belgium, Holland and Luxembourg and quickly defeated them by using blitzkrieg tactics. The British were forced to leave mainland Europe at Dunkirk. On 10 June, Italy invaded France, declaring war on France and the United Kingdom. Soon after that, France was divided into occupation zones. One was directly controlled by Germany and Italy, and the other was unoccupied Vichy France.\n\nBy June 1940, the Soviet Union moved its soldiers into the Baltic states and took them, followed by Bessarabia in Romania. Although there had been some collaboration between the Soviet Union and Germany earlier, this event made it serious. Later, when the two could not agree to work more closely together, relationships between them became worse to the point of war.\n\nThen Germany began an air battle over Britain to prepare for a landing on the island, but the plan was finally canceled in September. The German Navy destroyed many British ships transporting goods in the Atlantic. Italy, by this time, had begun its operation in the Mediterranean. The United States, which had not joined the war on either side, started to help the Allies. By helping to protect British ships in the Atlantic, the United States found itself fighting German ships by October 1941, although this was not a formal war.\n\nIn September 1940, Italy began to invade British-held Egypt. In October, Italy invaded Greece, but it only resulted in an Italian retreat to Albania. Again, in early 1941, an Italian army was pushed from Egypt to Libya in Africa. Germany soon helped Italy. Under Rommel's command, by the end of April 1941, the Commonwealth army was pushed back to Egypt again. Other than North Africa, Germany also successfully invaded Greece, Yugoslavia and Crete by May. Despite these victories, Hitler decided to cancel the bombing of Britain after 11 May.\n\nAt the same time, Japan's progress in China was still not much, although the nationalist and communist Chinese began fighting each other again. Japan was planning to take over European colonies in Asia while they were weak, and the Soviet Union could feel a danger from Germany, so a non-aggression pact (which was an agreement that both countries would not attack each other) between the two was signed in April 1941. However, Germany kept preparing an attack on the Soviet Union, moving its soldiers close to the Soviet border.\n\nOn 22 June 1941, the European Axis countries attacked the Soviet Union. During the summer, the Axis quickly captured Ukraine and the Baltic regions, which caused huge damage to the Soviets. Britain and the Soviet Union formed a military alliance between them in July. Although there was great progress in the last two months, when winter arrived, the tired German army was forced to delay its attack just outside Moscow. It showed that the Axis had failed its main targets, while the Soviet army was still not weakened. This marked the end of the blitzkrieg stage of the war.\n\nBy December, the Red Army facing the Axis army had received more soldiers from the east. It began a counter-attack that pushed the German army to the west. The Axis lost a lot of soldiers but it still saved most of the land it received before.\n\nBy November 1941, the Commonwealth counter-attacked the Axis in North Africa and got all the land it lost before. However, the Axis pushed the Allies back again until stopped at El Alamein.\nIn Asia, German successes encouraged Japan to call for oil supplies from the Dutch East Indies. Many Western countries reacted to the occupation of French Indochina by banning oil trading with Japan. Japan planned to take over European colonies in Asia to create a great defensive area in the Pacific which would let it free to get resources. But before any future invasion, it first had to destroy the American Pacific Fleet in the Pacific Ocean. On 7 December 1941, it attacked Pearl Harbor as well as many harbors in several South East Asian countries. This event led the United States, United Kingdom, Australia, Western Allies and China to declare war on Japan, while the Soviet Union remained neutral. Most of the Axis nations reacted by declaring war on the United States.\n\nBy April 1942, many South East Asian countries: Burma, Malaya, the Dutch East Indies and Singapore, had almost fallen to the Japanese. In May 1942, the Philippines fell. The Japanese navy had many quick victories. But in June 1942, Japan was defeated at Midway. Japan could not take more land after this because a large part of its navy was destroyed during the battle.\n\nJapan then began its plan to take over Papua New Guinea again, while the United States planned to attack the Solomon Islands. The fight on Guadalcanal began in September 1942 and involved a lot of troops and ships from both sides. It ended with the Japanese defeat in early 1943.\nOn the Eastern Front, the Axis defeated Soviet attacks during summer and began its own main offensive to southern Russia along Don and Volga Rivers in June 1942, trying to take over oil fields in Caucasus and a great steppe. Stalingrad was in the path of the Axis army, and the Soviets decided to defend the city. By November the Germans had nearly taken Stalingrad, however the Soviets were able to surround the Germans during winter and forced the heavily lost German army in the city to surrender in February 1943. Even though the front was pushed back further than it was before the summer attacks, the German army still had become dangerous to an area around Kursk.\nIn August 1942, because of the Allied defense at El Alamein, the Axis army failed to take the town. A new Allied offensive, drove the Axis west across Libya a few months later, just after the Anglo-American invasion of French North Africa forced it to join the Allies. This led to Axis defeat in the North African Campaign May 1943.\n\nIn the Soviet Union, on 4 July 1943, Germany started an attack around Kursk. Many German soldiers were lost because of the Soviets' well-created defenses. Hitler canceled the attack before any clear outcome. The Soviets then started their own counter-attack, which was one of the turning points of the war. After this, the Soviets became the attacking force on the Eastern Front, instead of the Germans.\n\nOn 9 July 1943, affected by the earlier Soviet victories, the Western Allies landed on Sicily. This resulted in the arrest of Mussolini in the same month. In September 1943, the Allies invaded mainland Italy, following the Italian armistice with the Allies. Germany then took control of Italy and disarmed its army, and built up many defensive lines to slow the Allied invasion down. German special forces then rescued Mussolini, who then soon created the German-occupied client state, Italian Social Republic.\n\nIn early 1944, the Soviet army drove off the German army from Leningrad, ending the longest and deadliest siege in history. After that, the Soviets began a big counter-attack. By May, the Soviets had retaken Crimea. With the attacks in Italy from September 1943, the Allies succeeded in capturing Rome on 4 June 1944, and made the German forces fall back.\n\nOn D-Day, 6 June 1944, the Allies began the invasion of Normandy, France. The code name for the invasion was \"Operation Overlord\". The invasion were successful, and led to the defeat of the German forces in France. Paris was liberated on August 1944 and the Allies continued eastward while the German front collapsed. Operation Market-Garden was the combined aerial invasion of the Netherlands launched on 17 September 1944. The purpose of the invasion was to seize a series of bridges that included a bridge in Arnhem, which spanned the Rhine river. Market was the name for the airborne invasion. The ground invasion, named Garden, reached the Rhine river, but could not take the Arnhem bridge. .\n\nOn 22 June, the Soviet offensive on the Eastern Front, codenamed \"Operation Bagration\", almost destroyed the German Army Group Centre. Soon after, the Germans were forced to retreat and defend Ukraine and Poland. Arriving Soviet troops caused uprisings against the German government in Eastern European countries, but these failed to succeed unless helped by the Soviets. Another Soviet offensive forced Romania and Bulgaria to join the Allies. Communist Serbs partisans under Josip Broz Tito retook Belgrade with some help from Bulgaria and the Soviet Union. By early 1945, the Soviets attacked many German-occupied countries: Greece, Albania, Yugoslavia and Hungary. Finland switched to the side of the Soviets and Allies.\n\nOn 16 December 1944, the Germans tried one last time to take the Western Front by attacking the Allies in Ardennes, Belgium, in a battle is known as the Battle of the Bulge. This was the last major German attack of the war, and the Germans were not successful in their attack. \n\nBy March 1945, the Soviet army moved quickly from Vistula River in Poland to East Prussia and Vienna, while the Western Allies crossed the Rhine. In Italy, the Allies pushed forward, while the Soviets attacked Berlin. The allied western forces would eventually meet up with the Soviets at the Elbe river on 25 April 1945.\n\nHitler committed suicide on 30 April 1945, two days after Mussolini's death. In his will, he appointed his navy commander, Grand Admiral Karl Dönitz, to be the President of Germany. Dönitz surrendered to the Allies, and opposed Hitler's will to have Germany continue fighting.\n\nGerman forces in Italy surrendered on 29 April 1945. Germany surrendered to the Western Allies on 7 May 1945, known as V-E Day, and was forced to surrender to the Soviets on 8 May 1945. The final battle in Europe was ended in Italy on 11 May 1945.\n\nIn the Pacific, American forces arrived in the Philippines on June 1944. And by April 1945, American and Philippine forces had cleared much of the Japanese forces, but the fighting continued in some parts of the Philippines until the end of the war. British and Chinese forces advanced in Northern Burma and captured Rangoon by 3 May 1945. American forces then took Iwo Jima by March and Okinawa by June 1945. Many Japanese cities were destroyed by Allied bombings, and Japanese imports were cut off by American submarines.\n\nThe Allies wanted Japan to surrender with no terms, but Japan refused. This resulted in the United States dropping two atomic bombs over Hiroshima (6 August 1945) and Nagasaki (9 August 1945). On 8 August 1945, the Soviets invaded Manchuria, quickly defeating the primary Imperial Japanese Army there. On 15 August 1945, Japan surrendered to the Allies. The surrender documents were formally signed on board the \"USS Missouri\" on 2 September 1945, ending the war.\n\nThe Allies managed to occupy Austria and Germany. Germany was divided into western and eastern parts, under the Western Allies and Soviet control, respectively. The Allies began denazification, removing Nazi ideas from history, and most high-ranking Nazis were captured and brought to a special court. Germany lost a quarter of the land it had in 1937, with the land given to Poland and the Soviet Union. The Soviets also took some parts of Poland and Finland, as well as three Baltic countries.\nThe United Nations was formed on 24 October 1945, to keep peace between countries in the world. However, the relationship between the Western Allies and the Soviet Union had worsened during the war and, soon after the war, each power quickly built up their power over controlled area. In Western Europe and West Germany, it was the United States, while in East Germany and Eastern Europe, it was the Soviet Union, in which many countries were turned into Communist states. The Cold War started after the formation of the American-led NATO and the Soviet-led Warsaw Pact.\n\nIn Asia, Japan was put under American occupation. In 1948, Korea was divided into North and South Korea, each claiming to be the legal representative of the Koreans, which led to the Korean War in 1950. Civil war in China continued fighting in 1946, and resulted with the KMT retreating to Taiwan in 1949. The communists won the mainland. In the Middle East, the Arab disagreement on the United Nations plan to create Israel marked the beginning of conflicts between the Arabs and Israel.\nAfter the war, decolonization took place in many European colonies. Bad economies and people wanting to rule themselves were the main reasons for that. In most cases, it happened peacefully, except in some countries, such as Indochina and Algeria. In many regions, European withdrawal caused divisions among the people who had different ethnic groups or religions.\n\nEconomic recovery was different in many parts of the world. In general, it was quite positive. The United States became richer than any other country and, by 1950, it had taken over the world's economy. It also ordered the Marshall Plan (1948–1951) to help European countries. German, Italian, and French economies recovered. However, the British economy was badly harmed and continued to worsen for more than ten years. The Soviet economy grew very fast after the war was over. This also happened with the Japanese economy, which became one of the largest economies in the 1980s. China returned to the same production level as before the war by 1952.\n\nThere is no exact total number of deaths, because many were unrecorded. Many studies said that more than 60 million people died in the war, mostly civilians. The Soviet Union lost around 27 million people, almost half of the recorded number. This means that 25% of the Soviets were killed or wounded in the war. About 85% of the total deaths were on the Allies side, and the other 15% were on the Axis. Mostly, people died because they were sick, hungry to death, bombed, or killed because of their ethnicity.\n\nThe Nazis killed many groups of people they selected, known as \"The Holocaust\". They exterminated Jews, and killed the Roma, , , homosexuals and other groups. Around 11 to 17 million civilians died. Around 7.5 million people were killed in China by the Japanese. The most well-known Japanese crime is the Nanking Massacre, in which hundreds of thousands of Chinese civilians were raped and murdered. There were reports that the Germans and Japanese tested biological weapons against civilians and prisoners of war.\n\nAlthough many of the Axis's crimes were brought to the first international court, crimes caused by the Allies were not.\n\nOther than the Holocaust, about 12 million people, mostly Eastern Europeans, were forced to work for the German economy. German concentration camps and Soviet gulags caused a lot of death. Both treated prisoners of war badly. This was even the case for Soviet soldiers who survived and returned home.\n\nJapanese prisoner-of-war camps, many of which were used as labour camps, also caused a lot of deaths. The death rate of Western prisoners was 27.1%, seven times that of prisoners under Germans and Italians. More than 10 million Chinese civilians were made slaves and had to work in mines and war factories. Between 4 and 10 million people were forced to work in Java.\n\nBetween 1942 and 1945, Roosevelt signed an order which made Japanese Americans go to internment camps. Some Germans and Italians were included too.\n\nThe Allies agreed that the Soviet Union could use prisoners of war and civilians for forced labor. Hungarians were forced to work for the Soviet Union until 1955.\n\nBefore the war, in Europe, the Allies had a larger population and economy than the Axis. If colonies are included, the GDP of the Allies then would be two times of that of the Axis. While in Asia, China had only 38% higher GDP than the Japanese if their colonies are counted.\n\nThe Allies' economy and population compared with the Axis' lessened with the early Axis victories. However, this was no longer the case after the United States and Soviet Union joined the Allies in 1941. The Allies were able to have a higher production level compared with the Axis because the Allies had more natural resources. Also, Germany and Japan did not plan for a long war and had no ability to do so. Both tried to improve their economies by using slave laborers.\n\nAs men went off to fight, women took over many of the jobs they left behind. At factories, women were employed to make bombs, guns, aircraft, and other equipment. In Britain, thousands of women were sent to work on farms as part of the Land Army. Others formed the Women's Royal Naval Service to help with building and repairing ships. Even Princess Elizabeth, who later became Queen Elizabeth II, worked as a mechanic to aid the war effort. By 1945 some weapons were made almost entirely by women.\n\nIn the beginning, women were rarely used in the labour forces in Germany and Japan. However, Allied bombings and Germany's change to a war economy made women take a greater part.\n\nIn Britain, women also worked in gathering intelligence, at Bletchley Park and other places. The mass evacuation of children also had a major impact on the lives of mothers during the war years.\n\nGermany had two different ideas of how it would occupy countries. In Western, Northern, and Central Europe, Germany set economic policies which would make it rich. During the war, these policies brought as much as 40% of total German income. In the East, the war with the Soviet Union meant Germany could not use the land to gain resources. The Nazis used their racial policy and murdered a lot of people they thought non-human. The Resistance, the group of people who fought Germany secretly, could not harm the Nazis much until 1943.\n\nIn Asia, Japan claimed to free colonised Asian countries from European colonial powers. Although they were welcomed at first in many territories, their cruel actions turned the opinions against them within a short time. During the occupation, Japan used 4 million barrels of oil left behind by the Allies at the war's end. By 1943, it was able to produce up to 50 million barrels of oil in the Dutch East Indies. This was 76% of its 1940 rate.\n\nThe war brought new methods for future wars. The air forces improved greatly in fields such as air transport, strategic bombing (to use bombs to destroy industry and morale), as well as radar, and weapons for destroying aircraft. Jet aircraft were developed and would be used in worldwide air forces.\n\nAt sea, the war focused on using aircraft carriers and submarines. Aircraft carriers soon replaced battleships. The important reason was they were cheaper. Submarines, a deadly weapon since World War I, also played an important part in the war. The British improved weapons for destroying submarines, such as sonar, while the Germans improved submarine tactics.\n\nThe style of war on the land changed from World War I to be more moveable. Tanks, which were used to support infantry, changed to a primary weapon. The tank was improved in speed, armour and firepower during the war. At the start of the war, most commanders thought that using better tanks was the best way to fight enemy tanks. However, early tanks could harm armour just a little. The German idea to avoid letting tanks fight one another meant tanks facing tanks rarely happened. This was a successful tactic used in Poland and France. Ways to destroy tanks also improved. Even though vehicles became more used in the war, infantry remained the main part of the army, and most equipped like in World War I.\n\nSubmachine guns became widely used. They were especially used in cities and jungles. The assault rifle, a German development combining features of the rifle and submachine gun, became the main weapon for most armies after the war.\n\nOther developments included better encryption for secret messages, such as the German Enigma. Another feature of military intelligence was the use of deception, especially by the Allies. Others include the first programmable computers, modern missiles and rockets, and the atomic bombs.\n\n\n", "id": "219837", "title": "World War II"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219838", "text": "Rubeus Hagrid\n\nRubeus Hagrid is a teacher and groundskeeper at Hogwarts, friend of Harry, Ron, and Hermione. He is also a \"half-giant.\" His father was not a giant, whereas his mother, Fridwulfa, who died whilst he was young, was a giantess. He has a half-brother named Grawp. In the movies, Hagrid is played by Robbie Coltrane. Martin Playfield appears as a young Hagrid in \"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets\".\n\nHagrid was expelled from Hogwarts after The Ministry of Magic thought he had opened the Chamber of Secrets, but he had been framed by Tom Riddle and so was allowed to remain at the school as gamekeeper. The government broke his wand and banned him from doing magic when he was expelled, but he keeps pieces of the wand in his pink umbrella. \n\nHagrid is also friends with Madame Maxime, it is not known if they were together in a romantic way.\n\nHagrid keeps several pets.\n", "id": "219838", "title": "Rubeus Hagrid"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219843", "text": "Rodney Stuckey\n\nRodney \"Norvell\" Stuckey is a professional National Basketball Association player for the, Detroit Pistons. He went to Eastern Washington University. He went to Kentwood High School, in Kent, Washington. He was born on, April 21, 1986 in Seattle, Washington. He was drafted by the Detroit Pistons in the 1st round (15th pick, 15th overall) of the 2007 NBA draft. His jersey number is 3. He is 6'5\", and is 205 pounds. He was the 2007-08 NBA All-Rookie (2nd). He plays the guard position.\n\nOn March 5, 2010, Stuckey had a seizure on the bench during a game and collapsed in his trainer's arms, and was taken to the hospital. However, he was reported to be doing well not long after going to the hospital, and returned to next play in a game on March 19.\n\n", "id": "219843", "title": "Rodney Stuckey"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219855", "text": "Alou Diarra\n\nAlou Diarra (born 15 July 1981) is a French football player. He plays for Girondins Bordeaux and France national team.\n\n215||15\n0||0\n215||15\n\n!Total||24||0\n", "id": "219855", "title": "Alou Diarra"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219856", "text": "Gaël Givet\n\nGaël Givet (born 9 October 1981) is a French football player. He plays for Blackburn Rovers.\n\n200||8||||||||||28||1||228||9\n14||0||4||0||0||0||colspan=\"2\"|-||18||0\n214||8||4||0||0||0||28||1||246||9\n\n!Total||12||0\n", "id": "219856", "title": "Gaël Givet"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219857", "text": "Brad Jones\n\nBrad Jones (born 19 March 1982) is an Australian football player. He plays for Middlesbrough.\n\n67||0||11||0||1||0||4||0||83||0\n2||0||||||||||||||2||0\n69||0||11||0||1||0||4||0||85||0\n\n!Total||1||0\n", "id": "219857", "title": "Brad Jones"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219858", "text": "Sebastián Viera\n\nSebastián Viera (born 7 March 1983 in Florida, Uruguay) is an Uruguayan football player. He plays for Larissas and Uruguay national team.\n\n58||0\n75||0\n0||0\n133||0\n\n!Total||15||0\n", "id": "219858", "title": "Sebastián Viera"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219859", "text": "Christian Bolaños\n\nChristian Bolaños (born 17 May 1984) is a Costa Rican football player. He has played for Start and Costa Rica national team.\n\n138||10\n24||3\n0||0\n162||13\n\n!Total||31||1\n", "id": "219859", "title": "Christian Bolaños"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219860", "text": "Mido\n\nMido (born 23 February 1983) is an Egyptian football player. He plays for West Ham United and Egypt national team.\n\n19||4||||||||||||||19||4\n21||11||||||||||||||21||11\n40||21||||||||||||||40||21\n8||4||||||||||||||8||4\n22||7||||||||||11||2||33||9\n8||0||||||||||4||0||12||0\n85||22||10||2||6||4||4||0||105||28\n188||68||10||2||6||4||19||2||223||76\n\n!Total||51||19\n", "id": "219860", "title": "Mido"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219861", "text": "Angelo Carlos Pretti\n\nAngelo Carlos Pretti (born August 10, 1965) is a former Brazilian football player.\n\n149||76||11||8||0||0||160||84\n149||76||11||8||0||0||160||84\n\n", "id": "219861", "title": "Angelo Carlos Pretti"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219862", "text": "Rudi Vata\n\nRudi Vata (born 13 February 1969) is a former Albanian football player. He has played for Albania national team.\n\n19||4\n60||4\n49||9\n89||2\n24||3\n241||22\n\n!Total||59||5\n", "id": "219862", "title": "Rudi Vata"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219863", "text": "Zamalek Sporting Club\n\nZamalek Sporting Club is a sport club in Egypt. It is located in Cairo.\n\n\"'Total number of cups: 86\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nTrophies and years are approved as the Egyptian football Federation site http://www.efa.com.eg , Zamalek SC Facebook Page https://www.facebook.com/ZSCOfficial\n\n", "id": "219863", "title": "Zamalek Sporting Club"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219866", "text": "IK Start\n\nIK Start is a Norwegian football club. It was founded on 19 September 1905.\n\n\"As of 1 September 2009.\" \n\n", "id": "219866", "title": "IK Start"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219871", "text": "The Ladykillers (2004 movie)\n\nThe Ladykillers is a 2004 American crime comedy movie. It is set in Mississippi and stars Tom Hanks. It was directed by the Coen brothers. It is a remake of the original 1955 movie of the same name.\n", "id": "219871", "title": "The Ladykillers (2004 movie)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219873", "text": "Bill Paxton\n\nWilliam \"Bill\" Paxton (May 17, 1955 – February 25, 2017) was an American actor and movie director. He was in the movie \"Twister\", as \"Bill Harding\", with co-star, Helen Hunt. Alan Ruck and Philip Seymour Hoffman co-starred. He is also known for his roles in \"The Terminator\" (1984), \"Weird Science\" (1985), \"Aliens\" (1986), \"Predator 2\" (1990), \"True Lies\" (1994), \"Apollo 13\" (1995), and \"Titanic\" (1997). \n\nPaxton starred in the HBO series \"Big Love\" (2006–2011) and was nominated for an Emmy Award for the miniseries \"Hatfields & McCoys\". He is the father of actor John Paxton. In 1987, he won a Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in \"Aliens\".\n\nPaxton was born on May 17, 1955 in Fort Worth, Texas. He was raised as a Roman Catholic.\n\nPaxton was in the crowd waving when President John F. Kennedy emerged from the Hotel Texas in Fort Worth, on the morning of his assassination, November 22, 1963. There are pictures at the Sixth Floor Museum in Dallas where 8-year-old Paxton can be seen lifted above the crowd.\n\nPaxton died on February 25, 2017 at a hospital in Los Angeles, California from a post-surgical stroke complicated by heart surgery, aged 61.\n", "id": "219873", "title": "Bill Paxton"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219875", "text": "Alias (TV series)\n\nAlias was a long running action television series that lasted 5 seasons before ending. The starring lead actress was Jennifer Garner. A co-starring actor was Mike Vartan.\n\n", "id": "219875", "title": "Alias (TV series)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219876", "text": "Fred Willard\n\nFrederic \"Fred\" Willard (born September 18, 1939) is an American actor, comedian, voice actor and writer. His best known movie roles include \"This Is Spinal Tap\" (1984), \"Waiting for Guffman\" (1997), \"American Wedding\" (2003), \"A Mighty Wind\" (2003), \"\" (2004), \"Harold & Kumar Go to White Castle\" (2004), \"WALL-E\" (2008), \"Youth in Revolt\" (2009) and \"\" (2013). He had also appeared in television series such as \"Everybody Loves Raymond\", \"The Simpsons\" and \"Modern Family\".\n\nWillard was born in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He has been married to Mary Lovell since 1968. They have a daughter, Hope. In July 2012, he was arrested after \"engaging in a lewd act\" in an adult movie theater.\n\n", "id": "219876", "title": "Fred Willard"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219879", "text": "Oslofjord\n\nThe Oslofjord () is one of Norway’s most popular recreation area. It is 100 kilometres in length. It is a short distance from Oslo by ferry.\n\nThe fjord carries shipping to and from Oslo. The northern part of Oslofjord splits into several smaller fjords, including Sande Bay and Bunne Fjord.\n\n", "id": "219879", "title": "Oslofjord"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219884", "text": "Bo Outlaw\n\nCharles \"Bo\" Outlaw (born April 13, 1971; also known as Bo Outlaw) is a retired basketball player who played in the National Basketball Association (NBA). He played for the Los Angeles Clippers, Orlando Magic, Phoenix Suns, and Memphis Grizzlies. He played in his last NBA game in 2007. Before playing in the NBA, he played college basketball at South Plains College and the University of Houston.\n", "id": "219884", "title": "Bo Outlaw"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219885", "text": "Bill Murray\n\nWilliams James \"Bill\" Murray (born September 21, 1950) is an American comedian and actor. He has played in some drama roles but he usually does comedy. He was in the movies \"Groundhog Day\", \"Ghostbusters\", \"Stripes\", \"Lost in Translation\", and \"The Jungle Book\". Murray is known for his work on \"Saturday Night Live\" and \"Ghostbusters\". He also plays charity golf with professional golf players.\n\nMurray was born in Wilmette, Illinois. He was raised in Chicago, Illinois. He studied at Loyola Academy and Regis University (dropped out). \n\nMurray was married to Margaret Kelly from 1981 until they divorced in 1996. Then he married Jennifer Butler from 1997 until they divorced in 2008. Murray has six children.\n\n", "id": "219885", "title": "Bill Murray"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219892", "text": "Artificial pacemaker\n\nA pacemaker is a device created by Earl Bakken that helps to regulate your heart. It uses electrical pulses. If your heart is beating too fast, the pacemaker slows it down. If your heart slows down, the pacemaker will slightly speed it up, so that it goes back to a normal heart beat.\n", "id": "219892", "title": "Artificial pacemaker"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219897", "text": "West Macedonia\n\nWest Macedonia is one of the thirteen peripheries of Greece. It is also one of the 3 parts of the region of Macedonia and particularly the western. It contains 4 perfectures: Florina, Kozani, Kastoria and Grevena. It borders with Thessaly and Epirus to the west and Central Macedonia to the east. It also borders with two countries in the north: Albania and the Republic of Macedonia. It has a total population of 303,857 inhabitants according to the 2001 census. Its capital and biggest city is Kozani.\n\nOfficial website\n", "id": "219897", "title": "West Macedonia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219900", "text": "Skydra\n\nSkydra () is a town and municipality of Pella Prefecture in the region of Macedonia in Greece. It has a total population of 5,081 inhabitants in the town and 15,654 inhabitants in the municipality.\n\nDuring the Ottoman Empite until 1926 Skydra was known with the name Vertikop or Vartikop. The name was derived from the Turkish or Slavic languages. It was named like that because of a river that crossed these places. \n", "id": "219900", "title": "Skydra"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219910", "text": "Listen to Your Heart\n\nListen to Your Heart is a popular electronica/female vocals song. Roxette, sang this song. Different musical artists have made cover versions of this song.\n", "id": "219910", "title": "Listen to Your Heart"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219917", "text": "Gary Jules\n\nGary Jules (born March 19, 1969) is an American singer-songwriter. He is best known for his cover of the Tears for Fears song, \"Mad World\" that was used in the movie, \"Donnie Darko\".\n\n", "id": "219917", "title": "Gary Jules"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219920", "text": "Brass band\n\nA brass band is a musical group that is made up of only brass instruments (such as the trumpet, tuba, and trombone) and a drum section.\n\nThere are several different types of brass bands. One of the more popular types of brass band is the British brass band. A British brass band usually has 25 or 26 players that play: cornets, flugelhorns, tenor horns, euphoniums, tenor trombone, bass trombone and tuba.\n\n\n", "id": "219920", "title": "Brass band"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219922", "text": "1st millennium BC\n\nThe 1st millennium BC was the last millenium before the Common Era. It started on January 1, 1000 BC, and ended on December 31, 1 BC. There was no year 0 and no year 0 BC.\n", "id": "219922", "title": "1st millennium BC"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219934", "text": "Bird nest\n\nA bird nest is a place where a bird lays its eggs. There are all kinds of nests, from cup nests to digging holes in the ground to simply stuffing some leaves inside the \"o\" of a McDonald sign. The word can be used as a noun or a verb, as in – a bird \"nests\" in a \"nest\". They are in all kinds of sizes: some can be as big and heavy as a car, like an old eagle's nest, while some can be tiny as a , like the nest of a Bee Hummingbird.\n\nUsually, the female builds the nest, and the male helps her. In some species, though, the male does nothing, and in others, the male builds the nest and the female does nothing.\n\nMany birds \"glue\" their nests together with materials like spider webs, silk, mud, and even their own saliva (spit). Most nest builders like to put soft things \"inside\" their nest. Some birds even put herbs and spices in their nest. Scientists think these herbs help fight off bacteria in a way they can't completely understand yet.\n\nThe \"cup nest\" is probably the most common bird nest. Its name tells you that a cup nest is shaped like a cup or bowl. Many songbirds built cup nests. These nests can be built in the branches of a tree, like in the crack where one branch joins another: however, some can simply stick the nest right onto the branch of a tree. They use lots of materials that act like sticky glue – mud, rotten wood, dung, spider webs, and caterpillar silk. . They sometimes even use their own saliva mixed with food to keep the nest firmly stuck on the branch.\n\nCup nesters use all kinds of materials to build a nest: twigs (tiny branches), grass, leaves, moss; and they use all sorts of materials to keep it from falling apart. Most cup nesters use rough, material for the outside (this gives protection and camouflages the rest), and put soft, cozy material like moss, fur, feathers, and cotton on the inside.\n\nMany cup nesters enjoy nesting very close to the ground in low bushes – sometimes they will even nest in potted plants on a . Some of them actually just build their nests on the ground. Sparrows, cardinals, and many other song birds (called \"passerines\"), like to nest near the ground, far away from owls, hawks, and Blue Jays that may eat their babies.\n\nThere are several types of cup nests. A suspended cup nest is attached to the branch at the top and sides but then drops like a bag down below. It really looks more like a vase than a cup. The bird is almost hidden when she warms her eggs. The mother bird can sit down on the branch above the nest and bend down to feed her baby birds. Orioles are very famous for building amazingly long bags that hang far below the branch.\n\nThe smallest cup nests are made by hummingbirds. They can be as tiny as a , like the Bee Hummingbird's nest. That tiny nest holds eggs that are as tiny as peas. The \"largest\" cup nest is probably the stork's. His nest can be nine feet deep and six feet wide. The stork's nest is so big that smaller birds actually make nests in its cracks, holes, and branches.\n\n\"Adherent nests\" adhere (stick) to buildings, trees, cliffs, or other vertical structures. Swallows can build an almost perfectly round nest out of mud. Some species make cup-shaped nests, while others make jug-like nests with little holes in the sides. They put little balls of mud in their mouth and mix it with their saliva, making a special clay. As it dries, it becomes hard.\n\nBird saliva is very good for making glue: in fact, some species of swiftlets make their whole nest out of simply saliva. The male regurgitates (throws up) a long, thin strand of saliva from under its tongue. This saliva is used to be made into a half-cup nest which sticks to a cave wall (swiftlets like to build their nests in caves and grottos) and dries quickly. This saliva nest is thought to be a delicacy (something \"really\" yummy to eat) in China, and it is very expensive. They put it into a soup called Bird's Nest Soup.\n\nA \"platform nest\" are built mostly by raptors (birds that eat , like eagles and hawks). They are usually huge and very, very high up - on the sides of cliffs, maybe, or high up in a big tree. It takes months and months making these nests, adding branch by branch. They often return to the same nest year after year and continue to build it. It is because of this that platform nests get \"so big\": a Bald Eagle's nest, for example, can weigh as much as a ton (about the same weight as a small car). It is so heavy it can sometimes hurt the tree it is built in.\n\nA few water birds (like grebes and loons) build platform nests right on the water, where they can float. The nests don't move, though, because they are anchored to plants that are attached to the bottom of the body of water. These birds build nests on water because they don't walk well on land, so they find a shallw (not deep) part of the water to build their nests. Then, they do not \"walk\" to their nests - they \"swim\" to it. When the babies are ready, they simply jump into the water and begin their aquatic (water) life.\n\n\"Earth-hole nests\" are nests that are inside the earth. They are burrows (tunnels) on the ground or in the sides of cliffs. They like using abandoned rabbit holes, too. The Burrowing Owl only uses already dug holes for its nest.\n\nPuffins, for instant, dig a tunnel that is usually two to three feet long. At the end they make a nest of feathers and grass and lay their eggs. They are able to do this because of their sharp bill and claws. A puffin can work for hours to make its tunnel. Kingfishers, too, digs or burrows its hole. It can burrow up to six feet into the side of a cliff and lays its eggs in that place.\n\nMany birds nest right on the ground. After carving out a little hole, ground and mound nesters line the nest with grass or other materials. Geese even pick feathers from their breasts and make a nice downy bed for their eggs. Most ducks, geese, and quail like the ground for nesting. Penguins nest on the ground, too, pushing rocks around the nest to keep it from washing away with flood waters. Usually, males make ground nests.\n\nThe Trumpeter Swan makes a big mound nest, and flamingos make mounds, too. Flamingos make their mounds completely out of mud. They can be up to 18 inches high and 12 to 20 inches in width.\n\nThese nests are barely a nest at all – just a small depression in the ground or a pile of dead leaves to lay eggs on. These scrape-nesting birds usually have eggs that match the color of dead leaves or rocks. This is needed because these eggs are in danger of being eaten by animals like rats, raccoons, snakes, and others that eat eggs.\n\nMany scrape nesters actually tries to distract creatures that might be dangerous by pretending they have a broken wing and trying to distract it. This makes a predator chase the mother bird, and leave the eggs.\n\n\n", "id": "219934", "title": "Bird nest"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219935", "text": "Car bomb\n\nA car bomb is a bomb device that is hidden within a vehicle. It is usually driven into places that have large groups of people. Terrorists use car bombs more than any other organization. The car with the bomb attached to it will explode. This will usually cause fires and small pieces of metal which cause most of the damage.\n", "id": "219935", "title": "Car bomb"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219948", "text": "Mancini\n\nMancini (born 1 August 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Milan.\n\n68||16||15||0||colspan=\"2\"|-||83||16\n193||41||33||11||41||8||267||60\n261||57||48||11||41||8||350||76\n\n!Total||9||0\n", "id": "219948", "title": "Mancini"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219949", "text": "Darren Ambrose\n\nDarren Ambrose (born 29 February 1984) is an English football player. He plays for Crystal Palace.\n\n188||26||12||3||12||3||19||2||231||34\n188||26||12||3||12||3||19||2||231||34\n", "id": "219949", "title": "Darren Ambrose"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219950", "text": "Mazinho Oliveira\n\nMazinho Oliveira (born 26 December 1965) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.\n\n62||13||||||||||62||13\n49||11||||||||||49||11\n108||53||16||13||31||11||155||77\n219||77||16||13||31||11||266||101\n\n!Total||10||2\n", "id": "219950", "title": "Mazinho Oliveira"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219951", "text": "Charles N'Zogbia\n\nCharles N'Zogbia (born 28 May 1986) is a French football player. He plays for Wigan Athletic.\n\n131||10||10||0||8||0||21||1||170||11\n131||10||10||0||8||0||21||1||170||11\n", "id": "219951", "title": "Charles N'Zogbia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219952", "text": "Karim Benzema\n\nKarim Benzema (born 19 December 1987) is a French football player. He plays for Real Madrid and France national team.\n\n112||43||19||12||19||12||150||67\n0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0\n112||43||19||12||19||12||150||67\n\n!Total||27||8\n", "id": "219952", "title": "Karim Benzema"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219954", "text": "Lim You-Hwan\n\nLim You-Hwan (born 2 December 1983 ) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.\n\n13||0||1||0||1||0||colspan=\"2\"|-||15||0\n85||5||2||0||26||0||4||1||117||6\n98||5||3||0||27||0||4||1||132||6\n\n!Total||1||0\n", "id": "219954", "title": "Lim You-Hwan"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219955", "text": "Regillio Simons\n\nRegillio Simons (born 28 June 1973) is a former Dutch football player.\n\n269||42\n7||2\n276||44\n", "id": "219955", "title": "Regillio Simons"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219956", "text": "Alemão (born in 1984)\n\nCarlos Adriano de Jesus Soares, better known as Alemão (10 April 1984 – 8 July 2007), was a Brazilian football player.\n\n31||8||||||||||31||8\n68||35||1||0||5||2||74||37\n99||43||1||0||5||2||105||45\n", "id": "219956", "title": "Alemão (born in 1984)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219958", "text": "Paulo Antônio de Oliveira\n\nPaulo Antônio de Oliveira (born 16 July 1982) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Ventforet Kofu.\n\n60||12||||||||||60||12\n13||4||||||||||13||4\n127||66||1||1||11||1||139||68\n200||82||1||1||11||1||212||84\n", "id": "219958", "title": "Paulo Antônio de Oliveira"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219959", "text": "Akhrik Tsveiba\n\nAkhrik Tsveiba (born 10 September 1966) is a former Ukrainian-Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team, Ukraine national team and Russia national team.\n\n127||1||||||||||127||1\n21||0||||||||||21||0\n90||1||||||||||90||2\n75||2||7||0||12||0||94||3\n313||4||7||0||12||0||332||4\n\n!Total||25||2\n\n!Total||1||0\n\n!Total||8||0\n", "id": "219959", "title": "Akhrik Tsveiba"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219960", "text": "Dmitri Radchenko\n\nDmitri Radchenko (born 2 December 1970) is a former Russian football player. He has played for Soviet Union national team and Russia national team.\n\n110||34||||||||||110||34\n32||14||||||||||32||14\n150||26||||||||||150||26\n22||4||2||1||4||1||28||6\n10||4||||||||||10||4\n324||82||2||1||4||1||330||84\n\n!Total||2||0\n\n!Total||33||9\n", "id": "219960", "title": "Dmitri Radchenko"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219961", "text": "Javier Irureta\n\nJavier Irureta (born 1 April 1948) is a former Spanish football player. He has played for Spain national team.\n\n344||70\n344||70\n\n!Total||6||0\n", "id": "219961", "title": "Javier Irureta"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219963", "text": "Kasper Schmeichel\n\nKasper Schmeichel (born 5 November 1986) is a Danish professional association football player.\n\n64||0||0||0||1||0||1||0||66||0\n15||0||1||0||1||0||colspan=\"2\"|-||17||0\n79||0||1||0||2||0||1||0||83||0\n", "id": "219963", "title": "Kasper Schmeichel"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219964", "text": "Carlton Cole\n\nCarlton Cole (born 12 November 1983) is an English footballer. He plays for West Ham United and England national team.\n\n185||38||14||5||10||5||4||0||213||48\n185||38||14||5||10||5||4||0||213||48\n\n!Total||6||0\n", "id": "219964", "title": "Carlton Cole"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219968", "text": "Ko Jeong-Woon\n\nKo Jeong-Woon (born 27 June 1966) is a South Korean professinal athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.\n", "id": "219968", "title": "Ko Jeong-Woon"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219969", "text": "Edin Mujčin\n\nEdin Mujčin (born 14 January 1970) is a Bosnia and Herzegovina football player. He has played for Bosnia and Herzegovina national team.\n\n292||42||||||||||292||42\n33||3||1||1||8||0||42||4\n325||45||1||1||8||0||334||46\n\n!Total||24||1\n", "id": "219969", "title": "Edin Mujčin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219970", "text": "Néstor Gorosito\n\nNéstor Gorosito (born 14 April 1964) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.\n\n318||73\n97||13\n6||3\n421||89\n\n!Total||19||1\n", "id": "219970", "title": "Néstor Gorosito"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219971", "text": "Marcelo Lipatín\n\nMarcelo Lipatín (born 28 January 1977) is an Uruguayan football player.\n\n40||10\n15||7\n6||1\n1||0\n45||20\n42||2\n52||13\n201||53\n", "id": "219971", "title": "Marcelo Lipatín"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219973", "text": "Hennie Meijer\n\nHennie Meijer (born February 17, 1962) is a former Dutch football player. He has played for the Dutch national team.\n\n411||148\n11||2\n422||150\n\n!Total||1||0\n\n", "id": "219973", "title": "Hennie Meijer"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219975", "text": "Shaka Hislop\n\nShaka Hislop (born 22 February 1969) is a former Trinidad and Tobago football player. He has played for Trinidad and Tobago national team.\n\n370||0\n10||0\n380||0\n\n!Total||||\n", "id": "219975", "title": "Shaka Hislop"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219976", "text": "Hélder Postiga\n\nHélder Postiga (born 2 August 1982) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Sporting Portugal.\n\n135||41\n19||1\n16||2\n11||2\n181||46\n\n!Total||33||11\n", "id": "219976", "title": "Hélder Postiga"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219977", "text": "Tetsuya Abe\n\nTetsuya Abe (born 24 June 1983) is a former Japanese football player.\n\n5||0||0||0||0||0||5||0\n5||0||0||0||0||0||5||0\n", "id": "219977", "title": "Tetsuya Abe"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219991", "text": "Víctor Fernández\n\nVíctor Fernández (born 28 November 1960) is a Spanish football manager. He has managed a number of teams including Porto of Portugal.\n", "id": "219991", "title": "Víctor Fernández"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219992", "text": "Miguel Ángel Lotina\n\nMiguel Ángel Lotina (born 18 June 1957) is a Spanish football manager. During his career he has managed several Spanish teams, including currently Deportivo La Coruña.\n", "id": "219992", "title": "Miguel Ángel Lotina"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220010", "text": "NHL Winter Classic\n\nThe NHL Winter Classic is an annual event held by the National Hockey League where regular-season games are played outdoors.\n", "id": "220010", "title": "NHL Winter Classic"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220012", "text": "List of Stanley Cup Finals appearances\n\nThis is a list of Stanley Cup Finals appearances, which lists those teams that have played in the Stanley Cup Final series since the current play-off format was adopted in 1915. Before this, from 1894 to 1914, the Cup was won by challenge or league championship. Since 1927, the Stanley Cup Final series also determines the National Hockey League (NHL) championship.\n\nUnless marked otherwise, teams played in the NHL exclusively at the time they competed for the Stanley Cup. A bolded year denotes a Stanley Cup win.\nFour active teams have yet to make a Stanley Cup Finals appearance. Two of these teams have remained in the same location since their inceptions:\n\nThe other two teams have relocated and have not made the Finals in either location:\n\n\nFive relocated teams that have won the Stanley Cup in their current locations and never appeared in the Finals in their former locations:\n\nListed after the team name is the name of the affiliated league(s) when the team competed for the Stanley Cup. A bolded year denotes a Stanley Cup win\n\n", "id": "220012", "title": "List of Stanley Cup Finals appearances"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220020", "text": "Denzel Washington\n\nDenzel Washington (born December 28, 1954) is an American actor, director, and producer. He has won many awards during his acting career. In 2001 he became only the second African American man to win the Academy Award for \"Best Actor\". He has been in 43 feature films. He has won two Oscars. \n\nWashington played Malcolm X in the 1992 movie \"Malcolm X\". He played Whip Whitaker in the 2012 film \"Flight\".\n", "id": "220020", "title": "Denzel Washington"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220030", "text": "Filip Vandewal\n\nFilip Vandewal (31 May 1981) is a Belgian cinematographer.\n\nFilip graduated from the Brussels movie school RITS in 2003. Movies he has worked on have been screened at several international movie festivals including Cannes Film Festival and Clermont-Ferrand. He was the cinematographer on \"De laatste zomer\" (\"Last Summer\"), a movie directed by Joost Wijnant. Filip now lives in Los Angeles.\n\n", "id": "220030", "title": "Filip Vandewal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220037", "text": "Doddinghurst\n\nDoddinghurst is a village and civil parish in south Essex. It is 3 miles (5 km) to the north of Brentwood.\n", "id": "220037", "title": "Doddinghurst"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220040", "text": "Railway semaphore signal\n\nOne of the earliest forms of fixed railway signal is the semaphore. These signals display their different indications to train drivers by changing the angle of inclination of a pivoted 'arm'.\n", "id": "220040", "title": "Railway semaphore signal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220050", "text": "Thecodontosaurus\n\nThecodontosaurus (meaning \"socket-toothed lizard\") was a very early dinosaur that lived during the Upper Triassic, a time when the Earth was relatively warm and much of the land was dry and desert-like. This was around the time that the dinosaurs were just starting to appear.\n\nFossils of \"Thecodontosaurus\" have been found in southwest England (near Bristol) and Wales, which were probably dry and desert-like when \"Thecodontosaurus\" lived. \"Thecodontosaurus\" was first described by H. Riley and S. Stutchbury in 1836, and named by Morris in 1843. \n\nModern cladistic work has not been conclusive. \"Thecodontosaurus\" was earlier put under the Prosauropoda. More recently was suggested that \"Thecodontosaurus\" and its relatives came before the prosauropod-sauropod split. \"Thecodontosaurus\" is sometimes placed in a very basal position among the sauropodomorph dinosaurs. New reconstructions show that its neck is proportionally shorter than those in more 'advanced' early sauropodomorphs.\n", "id": "220050", "title": "Thecodontosaurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220059", "text": "Eric Holder\n\nEric Holder (born January 21, 1951) is an American attorney. He served as the Attorney General of the United States, under President Barack Obama from 2009 to 2015. He is the first African-American to hold that post. Before being named as Attorney General, he was the U.S. Attorney for the District of Columbia under President Clinton and help pick Joe Biden as Obama's running mate. Holder was born in the Bronx.\n\nOn September 25, 2014, the Justice Department said Holder would resign as soon as his successor is confirmed. He was succeeded by Loretta Lynch on April 27, 2015.\n", "id": "220059", "title": "Eric Holder"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220073", "text": "The Brothers Karamazov\n\nThe Brothers Karamazov () is a Russian novel written by Fyodor Dostoevsky. Dostoevsky said, \"I'd die happy if I could finish this final [last] novel, for I would have expressed myself completely.\"\n\n\"The Brothers Karamazov\" is the story of the lives of three Russian brothers who are very different in body, mind, and spirit, and are often thought of as representing those three parts of mankind. It was written in 1879 to 1880 in Russia, mostly in St. Petersburg. It was published in 1879 to 1880 in a series. It is his most complicated and deep novel, and most people think it is Dostoevsky’s greatest.\n\nThere are four brothers in the Karamazov family: Ivan, the atheist ; Dmitry, the emotional lover of women; Alyosha, the \"hero\" and Christian; and twisted, Smerdyakov, the child, who is treated as the family servant. Fyodor Pavlovich Karamazov is a very careless father and woman-lover. Dmitry comes to hate him because his father loves the same woman as he does, Grushenka, and because of this, he often threatens that he will kill his father. When Fyodor Pavlovich is killed by Smerdyakov, he is accused of killing his father.\n\nThroughout the book there is a search for truth: about man, about life, and about God. After it was published, all kinds of people such as Sigmund Freud, Albert Einstein, and Pope Benedict XVI thought it was the greatest book in all .\n\nFyodor Dostoevsky was born in 1821, the son of an army doctor. While he was away at the Academy of Engineers, his father died - reportedly murdered by his own servants. Though disagree whether Dostoevsky's father was really murdered or not, Dostoevsky apparently believed that his father had been murdered, and it is even possible that he felt feelings of guilt for it, as if he had been the one who had killed his father. People like Sigmund Freud argue that this had an influence when he wrote \"The Brothers Karamazov\". After 17 years of schooling and family life in Moscow, he spent six years in St Petersburg as an officer. He resigned in 1844, and two years later became famous with his first published book, \"Poor Folk\". Young Dostoevsky began to become involved with the Petrashevsky Circle - a group of political discussion groups by young people in St Petersburg who did not like the rule of Emperor Nicholas I. Because of this, Dostoevsky was arrested and held for eight months in the prisons of the Fortress of St Peter and St Paul. Meanwhile, he was put on trial while he was away and sentenced to death.\n\nOn 22 December 1849 8 A.M. he was pretended to be led out, with twenty other people, for execution by firing squad in the Semenovsky Square in St Petersburg. The first group was actually and tied up, while the second group watched. This terrible mock execution made one of the prisoners go insane. But then the order was suddenly changed, and he was given \"katorga\" (labor in Siberia) for four years. This had a great influence on his life. After that, he was to serve the military in Siberian .\n\nDostoevsky’s four years in prison camp greatly influenced his book and his life. He began to suffer from epilepsy when he was in prison, and would have epilepsy for the rest of his life. He shows how epilepsy feels like through the character Smerdyakov. Also, in prison he began believing in God, and having religious and philosophical inclinations. Through the character Rakitin, Dostoevsky makes fun of the “clever people” who jumped from one popular idea to another without caring about the truth. In prison, he also met Ilyinsky, who had been sent to prison for killing his father. Almost ten years after he met Ilyinsky, Dostoevsky found out that Ilyinsky was innocent and later became free when the real murderer confessed. Dmitry Karamazov is like Ilyinsky in many ways.\n\nAlso, shortly before he wrote \"The Brothers Karamazov\", his own son, Alexei, died. He creates in Alyosha what his son possibly might have been like, and reflects his own sadness in scenes where Captain Snegriev loses Ilyusha, or when Zosima comforts a woman who has lost her little son, Alexei.\n\nThroughout, Dostoevsky was concerned with the justice of God and the idea that \"if God does not exist, then everything is permitted (allowed).\"\n\nWhen he was young, Fyodor Pavlovich Karamazov was a and man who liked money and women too much. From his first wife, Adelaida, he had one son, Dmitry Karamazov. From his second wife, Sophia, he had Ivan and Alyosha Karamazov. Karamazov does not care about his sons, and they are all brought up by friends and relatives. Dmitry, who is a soldier, comes back when he is twenty-eight years old to take an his mother had left to him. Karamazov wants the inheritance for himself, and they get angry and fight with each other. Cold, clever Ivan is called to stop their fight, and the , kind Alyosha, who also lives at the town, comes to help. Alyosha studies in a monastery with the Elder Zosima. Dmitry and Fyodor agree that maybe Elder Zosima can help stop their fight, and Alyosha, though feeling worried about the meeting, says he will arrange it.\n\nFyodor Karamazov is vulgar, sarcastic and mocking at the meeting, and tries to make everybody angry and uncomfortable with his talk and stories. Alyosha is very sad and embarrassed. The Elder Zosima, however, is calm, polite, and even kind to him even when Karamazov is mocking (making fun of) him, telling him to be honest with himself.\n\nDmitry arrives late, and the meeting soon becomes a big fight between father and son. They are not only angry at each other because of money: they are both in love with Grushenka, a beautiful woman living in the town. While they are fighting, the Elder Zosima suddenly bows down to Dmitry, saying, “Forgive me!” Dmitry is very shocked, and later Zosima explains to Alyosha that he knows Dmitry is going to have very much suffering. In the middle of their fight, the elder also goes out to give advice to lots of people, including Mrs. Khokhlakov, whose daughter, Lise, keeps on laughing at the awkward Alyosha. He also comforts a woman whose three-year-old-son has died. This is probably an echo of Dostoevsky’s sadness about his dead son.\n\nFour years ago, Fyodor Karamazov became a father to a fourth son, Smerdyakov. Smerdyakov’s mother was a retarded and mute (unable to speak) woman called “Stinking Lizaveta.” Lizaveta died when she gave birth to Smerdyakov, and he became Karamazov’s servant. Smerdyakov grows up to have a strange and mean personality, and has epilepsy. Even though Karamazov always treats him like a servant, though, he is not stupid. He likes to talk about philosophy with Ivan and soon agrees with lots of Ivan’s ideas, especially the idea that the soul does not live forever and so there is no good or evil.\n\nDmitry explains to Alyosha that when he was a soldier, he was angry that beautiful Katerina kept on ignoring him and he tried to her by saying he would give her 4,500 rubles her father needed to pay his debt if she came to his house. When her father tries to kill himself because of the debt, she comes to Dmitry’s house at night like he told her to. However, he is so amazed and by her self-sacrifice that he just gives her the money without trying to seduce her. Shocked, Katerina kneels and bows down to him, “like a simple Russian woman,” and runs out. Later, when a relative gave her a lot of money, she offered to marry Dmitry, and they became engaged. But when they came to Karamazov’s town, he fell in love with Grushenka instead, and even stole 3,000 rubles from Katerina to have a wild party with Grushenka. He asks Alyosha to tell Katerina that he cannot be engaged to her anymore, and also asks Alyosha to get 3,000 rubles from his father so he can pay Katerina back. Alyosha sadly agrees. He goes to his father’s house, where he argues about God with Ivan. In the middle of their argument, Dmitry suddenly runs in and “…all hell seemed to have broken loose…” He beats up his father and threatens to kill him someday. Alyosha helps his hurt father, and goes to visit Katerina at Mrs. Khokalov’s house.\n\nWhen he goes there, he is shocked to see Grushenka there, too. Grushenka had just promised Katerina she would not marry Dmitry, and she would marry a lover she used to have long ago instead. Katerina is so happy she cries out that Grushenka is a “…dear angel,” and that she “has brought me back to life and made me happy.” Katerina even kisses Grushenka’s hands and lips, and “…acted as though she were in love with Grushenka.” But Grushenka suddenly insults Katerina, saying she might stay with Dmitry after all. “…just now I thought to myself: ‘And what if I take a fancy to him again, that Mitya fellow, since I took a fancy to him once and it lasted nearly a whole hour? I may even go right now and tell him to come and stay with me’…That’s how fickle (changing) I am.” She also talks about Katerina’s visit to Dmitry at night, crying, “…going to visit gentlemen after dark to try and peddle (sell) your charms for money? Why, I know all about that.” This makes Katerina so angry she goes into a hysterical fit. As Alyosha goes out of the house, a maid gives him a letter from Lise. Lise writes that she loves him and wants to marry him. Alyosha laughs “quietly and sweetly” as he reads the letter, and praying for all the sad people he loves, he goes to a peaceful sleep.\n\nZosima, knowing he will die soon, talks to the monks and to Alyosha about faith, love, and goodness. He also says that humans should not be judgmental, and “…above all, remember—do not be proud!” He also says, “Do not hate…Never cease to explain the Gospels to the people…Do not be avaricious (greedy)…Do not hoard…Have faith and defend its banner. Raise it, raise it high.”\n\nAlyosha goes to visit Mrs. Khokhlakov’s house to see Katerina. On the way, he sees a group of boys throwing rocks at another small boy, who proudly and fights back. When the boy runs away, Alyosha tries to talk to him, but the boy hits him with a rock and bites his finger. Alyosha is concerned and sad.\n\nHe is surprised to see Ivan with Katerina, and realizes they love each other very much. He tries to make them be honest with themselves and realize their own feelings, but they are too proud to do so. Ivan thinks his love is not important and that Katerina needs Dmitry in her life, not him. Katerina, who has been very hurt because of Dmitry, thinks that she can never be happy and everybody will betray her in the end, so she proudly tries to sacrifice herself for other people. Ivan leaves.\n\nKaterina tells Alyosha that Dmitry beat and a man named Captain Snegriev in front of his young son, and she asked him to “very tactfully, very delicately, as you and you only can do…try to give him these two hundred roubles.” Alyosha agrees. He goes to Captain Snegriev’s house and finds out that he is suffering even more than they knew: he was extremely poor, his children were sick, and his wife was mad; and Dmitry’s angry humiliation of him had taken away his honor, too. He also realizes that Ilyusha, his son, was the boy who bit his finger angrily, and now he knows that Ilyusha did like that because he was Dmitry’s brother: and because a rock hit Ilyusha in the chest, he has gotten very sick. Alyosha tries to give the 200 roubles to Captain Snegriev. At first he is overjoyed, but he is too proud to take it, and throwing the money down, runs away crying.\n\nAlyosha has lunch with his brother Ivan in a restaurant, and Ivan explains to him why he cannot believe in God: “Listen: if everyone must suffer, in order to buy eternal harmony with their suffering, pray tell me what have children to do with it? It’s quite why they should have to suffer, and why they should buy harmony with their suffering.” He says that to love God would be like a tortured man loving his torturer. Alyosha reminds Ivan about Christ, and Ivan, in a famous chapter of the book, says a prose poem he made up called The Grand .\n\nThe Grand Inquisitor is a story about how in the 16th century, Jesus comes to a town in Spain. He begins to heal sick people, but a very powerful cardinal puts him in jail. At night, the cardinal says to Jesus that free will for humans is bad and impossible. “You overestimated them…Man is weak and .” He talks about Jesus’ rejecting (saying no) to Satan’s three were wrong. He says that people with free will are usually too weak to have strong faith, and most people will be damned forever. Because of this, he says, the Church is trying to give people security instead of freedom. He finishes his speech by saying angrily, “…if anyone has ever deserved our fire, it is You, and I shall have you burned tomorrow. Dixi!”\nHe waits for his prisoner to say something. But suddenly, quietly, Jesus goes to the old man and “kisses him gently on his old, bloodless lips. And that is His only answer.”\nThe Grand Inquisitor, shocked, lets Jesus out and says he must never come back. Jesus leaves. When Alyosha asks, “What about the old man?” Ivan replies, “The kiss in his heart…But the old man sticks to his old idea.”\n\nAs Ivan finishes his story, he says, “…everything is permitted, but then, will you, too, turn your back on me?” But Alyosha goes to him and kisses him softly on his lips. Ivan is touched, and says Alyosha took that from his poem. Ivan leaves, and Alyosha goes back to Zosima, who is dying.\n\nAlyosha hears Zosima’s last lesson of love and forgiveness for everyone, saying that humans should not judge each other but have trust in God. He says that Alyosha reminds him of his older brother, who died when he was young. When Elder Zosima was young, he had been a wild and impious man in the army. He had challenged another man to a duel because of a girl. Before the duel, however, his heart was changed, and after the other man shot at him, he did not shoot his gun at the other person. He left the army and joined the shortly after. He talks about how much he loves the Bible and how people should all love each other. When he has finished his speech, he suddenly goes down to the floor, opens his arms as if he is embracing (hugging) the world, “praying and kissing the ground—as he had taught others to do—quietly and joyfully he gave up his soul to God.” Zosima’s last lesson is very different from Ivan’s arguments, and the story about the guilty man who repented (was sorry), becomes free, and is forgiven is almost an opposite with the story of the Grand Inquisitor, where an innocent man is put in jail and judged. Zosima dies happy, and his final act is a symbol of everything he taught in his life.\n\nMost people all think that because Zosima was so holy, his body will not decay, and some miracle will happen. It shocks everybody when Zosima’s body begins to have a bad smell and decay very quickly after his death. His enemies rudely say this means Zosima was not a saint but an evil person in disguise: for instance, crazily tries to make demons go out of Zosima’s room. Alyosha is very, very shocked and feels even angry that God could let such a wise,holy and good man like Zosima be so humiliated. He feels doubtful and sad, and without thinking, says yes when Rakitin makes him visit Grushenka. Rakitin and Grushenka both wanted Alyosha to be “sinful” like them. But instead of his becoming defiled (dirty), Alyosha and Grushenka become comforted by each other. They become friends: Grushenka makes Alyosha have faith and hope again after Zosima’s death, and Alyosha helps the confused Grushenka spiritually. That night, he sees Zosima in a dream, and Zosima tells him he has done a good deed for Grushenka. He wakes up standing, and going outside, falls down and kisses the earth, like how Zosima died: “He did not know why he was hugging the earth, why he could not kiss it enough, why he longed (wanted) to kiss it all…He kissed it again and again, drenching (making wet) with his tears, vowing (promising) to love it always, always…He was a weak youth when he fell on the ground, and he rose a strong and determined fighter. He knew it…And never, never thereafter (after that) would Alyosha forget that moment.”\n\nDmitry tries all kinds of things wildly to try to pay Katerina the money he has stolen from her. No one will lend him the money, and he has nothing to sell. Finally he goes to Grushenka’s house, and when he finds she is not there, he rushes to his father’s house. There, he is caught by Gregory, an old servant, and panicking, he hits Gregory and leaves him bloody and . He goes back to Grushenka’s house, and is shocked when he hears that Grushenka went back to her old lover. He decides he must kill himself, but wants to see Grushenka one last time before he does. However, when he goes to see Grushenka, her “real lover” is actually a silly, old and ugly Pole who cheats at cards. When Grushenka sees him cheat and hears the coarse and mean things he says, she realizes she actually loves Dmitry, not the Pole. When he insults her, Dmitry locks him up in the room. They begin a wild party with fruit and wine he has bought with thousands of rubles he mysteriously and suddenly has gotten, and he and Grushenka plan their future together. Dmitry is still worried about paying Katerina back, and he is afraid Gregory might die. Suddenly, some officers rush in and arrest him. Fyodor Karamazov has been murdered, and they think Dmitry did it.\n\nThe police question Dmitry, and are very suspicious of him because he has suddenly gotten so much money, and because everybody said he had blood on his hands as soon as he came out of his father's house. They say he must stand on trial. Dmitry says that the money he had was gotten this way: when he had stolen money from Katerina, he had spent only half of it and sewed the rest secretly into a little bag, and when he had heard Grushenka had run off with the Pole, he had decided to just spend the rest of it in a wild party before he killed himself; however, nobody believes him, and he is put in jail.\n\nMeanwhile, Alyosha has made friends with the schoolboys who had been throwing rocks at Ilyusha, and makes them be friends again. Alyosha helps Ilyusha’s family, and all the boys love him very much. He becomes friends with Kolya, a boy about two years older than Ilyusha, who is proud and “immensely enjoyed” bossing the younger boys around. Kolya is very impressed with Alyosha, and says, “…there’s only one person in the world who can tell Kolya Krasotkin what to do,” meaning Alyosha; he even cries, “Oh, Karamazov, we’ll become very close friends. And shall I tell you what I like most about you? It’s that you treat me just like an equal. But we are not equals—you are by far my superior (better than me)!” Kolya is very clever and knows it, but when he talks to Alyosha about what he thinks of life, Alyosha quickly sees that his “philosophy” is just lots of ideas mixed up together from Rakitin; however, Alyosha respectfully listens to him and tells him clearly what \"he\" thinks about life. A doctor that Katerina sent comes and says that Ilyusha will die, and Kolya finally begins to cry out loud at the sight of his sick, unhappy friend.\n\nAlyosha visits Grushenka, who has changed spiritually. Even though she is still fiery-tempered and proud, there is a new gentleness in her. He also visits Lise, who has become extremely hysterical. She says she does not want to marry him, and often laughs and cries for no reason. She says she hates the world and wants to die. When he leaves, she slams the door on her finger and whispers, “I’m a vile, vile, vile (evil), creature.”\nAlyosha meets Ivan, and tells Ivan that he knows that Ivan thinks that he is involved in the murder of his father, and says, “It was not you who killed father…it was not you, not you! God has sent me to tell you this.” Surprised and troubled, Ivan hurries angrily away.\n\nIvan has been visiting Smerdyakov, who keeps on saying he knows that Ivan secretly wanted Fyodor Pavlovich Karamazov to die. Feeling worried and guilty, he goes to visit Katerina, who shows him a letter written by Dmitry when he was drunk, threatening to kill his father and get the 3,000 rubles. Ivan decides that Dmitry has killed his father, until he visits Smerdyakov again – and Smerdyakov openly admits that he killed Fyodor Pavlovich. Smerdyakov also says that he was able to do this because of Ivan’s ideas that “everything was allowed.” Ivan is horrified and so guilty he sees a devil that keeps on taunting him, and finally goes mad on the day Smerdyakov hangs himself.\n\nThe next day, the trial of Dmitry Karamazov opened in the court. Katerina tells the story of Dmitry helping her father and giving her money without saying anything bad about him. The clever lawyer, Fetyukovich, makes all the witnesses who think Dmitry is guilty look silly. Dmitry’s case seems to be going well until Ivan comes and says that he has murdered his father, which makes everybody confused. Then Katerina, horrified, jumps up and screams that Ivan is innocent, and shows everybody the letter Dmitry wrote to her, doing the very opposite of her first . Immediately after this she feels so guilty and sad for “betraying” Dmitry that she goes into hysterics. The prosecutor, Ippolit Kirrillovich, say that Dmitry is guilty, not crazy, and that he has done the worst sin – a son killing his own father. On the other hand, the lawyer Fetyukovich says that there is no real proof that Dmitry is guilty, and that Fyodor Pavlovich Karamazov was never a real father to Dmitry; he also says that the only way for Dmitry to start a new life is to be set free. Almost everybody thinks Dmitry is innocent, feels sorry for him, and thinks he will be set free. However, the jury says he is guilty, and he is put into jail to wait for his to Siberia.\n\nAfter the trial, Katerina takes Ivan to her house and nurses him. Alyosha asks her to see Dmitry, who has decided to escape, and she agrees. She goes to see Dmitry, and they forgive each other. Grushenka suddenly comes in and is shocked to see Katerina. Katerina asks her to forgive her, too, but Grushenka angrily says no. Katerina hurries away, and Alyosha, who has seen everything, goes to Ilyusha’s funeral – he has died. There, he says a speech to the schoolboys about love and forgiveness, asking them to remember this day always, and the book ends hopefully with the boys cheering, “Three cheers for Karamazov!”\n\nAlso called: Alyoshka, Alyoshenka, Alyoshechka, Alxeichick, Lyosha, Lyoshenka\n\nDostoevsky calls him the “hero” of \"The Brothers Karamazov\". At the beginning of the book, Dostoevsky describes him:\n\nHe is special because of his very deep faith in God, his unselfishness, and his love for all humans. He refuses (does not) to judge people, and often is very to other people’s feelings. He is gentle, modest (not proud), and very kind, but never foolish or naïve, and because of this almost everybody likes and trusts him. “The gift of making people love him was inherent in him; he gained people’s affection directly and effortlessly; it was part of his nature.” Dmitry calls him “the cherub”; Fyodor Pavlovich Karamazov “…had come to love his son deeply and sincerely; in fact, his feelings for Alyosha were such as a man like him could never have expected to have for anyone.” He says to Alyosha, “…with you alone I feel like a decent person at certain moments…”, and that Alyosha is his “only true son…the only one I’m not afraid of.” Ivan says that he likes Alyosha because he has strong beliefs, and is one of the only people he talks really sincerely to. While Ivan is horrified at children’s sufferings and says that this is one of the reasons why he cannot believe in God, Alyosha actively helps and loves children, like Kolya and Ilyusha. He is almost a symbol of love and forgiveness, and represents the spiritual part of mankind. He influences the schoolboys and teaches them what Zosima taught him.\n\nAlso called: Dmitri, Mitka, Mitenka, Mitri Fyodorovich\n\nHe is described as “unruly as a boy and as a young man…irresponsible (not responsible), violent, passionate (with strong emotions), unruly, impatient…” He has Alyosha’s good heart, but his father’s sensuality. He is usually controlled by his strong emotions, like when he runs madly after Grushenka even after he had engaged with, and sincerely even loved, Katerina. He is a symbol of humans and their struggle between good and evil (bad), and more especially the bodily part of mankind. The prosecutor in the book says, \"...Dmitry Karamazov represents Russia directly, as it is today...she is all there, our old mother Russia; we can smell her! Oh, like him, we are such a...sincere people; we are an amazing mixture of good and evil; we love enlightenment and Schiller, but we also love to rage and storm in and to tear out the beards of our drunken drinking companions.\" He becomes a better and stronger man in the end, and this shows the writer’s belief in hope for humankind.\n\nAlso called: Vanka, Vanechka\n\nThe brother of Alyosha by the same mother, Sofia, Ivan is perhaps one of the most complicated characters in the story. He is an extremely clever student, (it is probable that he represents, in the novel, the intellectual part of mankind) and is proud and filled with doubt. Dmitry calls him “silent as the grave.” He cannot believe in God, or thinks that if God is real, he must be a very mean God who doesn’t care about humans. He says that “everything is possible” – there is no “good” or “bad.” However, he is disgusted at the life of his father, which logically is right according to his beliefs. He is too proud to follow his own happiness by acting on his own love for Katerina. His final madness shows the novel’s rejection of his beliefs. The sad problem with Ivan is that “his head is not in harmony with his heart”: with his feelings he loves God’s world, although with his reason he can’t accept it. Ivan has both a strong sense of justice, like Alyosha, and is unhappy at the suffering of children; but, unlike Alyosha, who actively makes friends with and helps children, Ivan does not do anything about it. It is unclear what will happen to him: but the novel ends so cheerfully it suggests he will probably find some way of spiritual .\n\nThe father of Dmitry, Ivan, Alyosha, and probably Smerdyakov. Lustful, vulgar, lying, coarse, and without caring about who he hurts, he is extremely selfish and cares only about his own desires. He is more afraid of Ivan than Dmitry, but he likes Alyosha, even though he likes to tease and scare him. He does not care much about his sons or his wives. Joyce Carol Oates describes him as \"...a certain perverse (strange) blend (mix) of the and the spiritual, a brilliant comic creation who cannot sit down to drink without questioning the meaning of life.\" However, together with his lustfulness, there is a surprising simpleness in him: \"As a general rule, people, even the wicked, are much more naive and simple-hearted than we suppose (think). And we ourselves are, too.\"\n\nAlso called: Grusha, Grushka\n\nBetrayed when she was young by a lover, she comes to town and makes almost all the men in the town fall in love with her. Dmitry and Fyodor Karamazov both love her and hate each other because of her. The book says “…in all fairness, it must be said, she was very, very beautiful and her beauty was that typical Russian beauty which inspires (creates) passion in so many men…She was twenty-two and she looked exactly her age.” She is very clever, for instance, she saves up money very well, proud, and actually much purer than most people think. She likes to torture both Dmitry and his father for fun, to laugh at them, and to have revenge for the hurt she received from her first lover; she can also be quite , like when she lied to Katerina, hurting and insulting her. However, a hidden gentleness, sincerity, and kindness inside her opens up and begins to grow after she becomes friends with Alyosha. Alyosha said, “I expected to find a wicked soul…But instead I have found a true sister, a treasure, a loving soul…”\n\nSilent, Smerdyakov is the son of an idiot woman named “Stinking Lizaveta,” which is where his name comes from. He was brought up by the servants, Martha and Gregory, and later became Fyodor Karamazov’s cook. He has epilepsy and is very mean, sometimes showing his evil openly, and sometimes pretending to be very humble and afraid. He sometimes plays the guitar to Maria, the landlady’s daughter. He has great respect for Ivan, and Ivan’s beliefs strongly influence his murder of Mr. Karamazov. He is Ivan's \"shadow\", and puts into action all Ivan's secret thoughts and wishes. He hangs himself later.\n\nSmerdyakov is almost Ivan's \"double\" at times; when Alyosha asks him politely if he knows where Dmitry is, he replies coldly, \"It's not as if I were his keeper\" (p. 269). A few pages later, Ivan says, \"'You are always harping upon it! What have I to do with it? Am I my brother Dmitri's keeper?' \" (p. 275) Later, when Fyodor Pavlovich is drunkenly talking about how he made Alyosha's mother, Sofya, become unhappy by insulting her God, Ivan angrily reminds him that Sofya was his mother, too. Fyodor exclaims in surprise:\n\n\"Your mother?...What do you mean? What mother are you talking about? Was she?...Why, damn it! of course she was yours too!...Excuse me, why, I was thinking Ivan...He, he, he!\" He stopped. A broad (wide), drunken, half senseless grin overspread his face. (p. 164)\n\nIt is possible that he was thinking that Ivan was Lizaveta's son - perhaps he even confused Ivan with Smerdyakov himself.\n\nAlso called: Katka, Katenka\n\nAn extremely proud, beautiful, and sensitive young woman who is Dmitry’s fiancée. She has a pale oval face, black eyes, and is very tall – even taller than Grushenka. She tries to pretend to be a martyr and by being very loyal and suffering a lot, wants everybody to see the evil of the people around her. She loves Ivan, but does not admit it, even to herself, until the end of the novel.\nThe kind, loving, “rather cheerful” and wise elder who is Alyosha’s and teacher before he dies. His real and goodness shows the faults of other people – even the very good Alyosha is embarrassed and awkward around Lise and his father, while Zosima is quiet, kind, and calm. He sees people clearly. Alyosha is influenced by his teachings and uses them to teach the schoolboys he becomes friends with. It is probable that his character was inspired by Saint Tikhon of Zadonsk. Dostoevsky wrote to poet A. Maikov, \"To you alone I make this confession...I am going to portray (picture) the real Tikhon of Zadonsk, whom I long ago received into my heart with real delight.\" When he first wrote \"The Brothers Karamazov\", the name \"Tikhon\" was inside, and was later replaced by \"Elder Zosima\".\n\nA rich lady in the town, a friend of the Karamazovs and Katerina. She is a bit selfish and , and worries very much about her daughter, Lise. She unknowingly what Elder Zosima seriously says about people being unable to judge each other, saying cheerfully about Dmitry,\n\n\"Let them acquit [Mitya]—that's so humane (kind), and would show what a blessing reformed (changed) law courts are...And if he is , make him come straight from the law courts to dinner with me, and I'll have a party of friends, and we'll drink to the reformed law courts. I don't believe he'd be dangerous; besides, I'll invite a great many friends, so that he could always be led out if he did anything. And then he might be made a justice of the peace or something in another town, for those who have been in trouble themselves make the best judges. And, besides, who isn't suffering...nowadays?\" (p. 703)\n\nMrs. Khokhlakov’s pretty but mischievous and daughter. She is in love with Alyosha and becomes engaged to Alyosha, but decides not to marry him. She grows more and more hysterical and wishes to suffer. Though people like Dmitry become spiritually new because of their suffering, Lise’s “suffering” is silly and selfish – like when she tries to slam the door on her fingernail. Ivan says that he “likes Lise,” but is very contemptuous about that “hell kitten.”\n\nA young student that Alyosha thinks of as his friend, but who secretly dislikes Alyosha. and sarcastic, he does not believe in God and likes to use fashionable philosophical theories, saying that he is a socialist and saying things that Nietzsche said. He is annoyed by Alyosha's real purity and tries to introduce him to Grushenka, hoping that she will shake his religious faith.\n\nA brave, proud, and clever young boy who makes friends with Alyosha after Ilyusha becomes ill.\n\nInside The Brothers Karamazov, people struggle between religious faith and doubt. When Fyodor Karamazov asks, “Is there a God or not?” Ivan says, “No, there is no God.” Fyodor turns to Alyosha: “Alyosha, does God exist?” Alyosha firmly answers, “God does exist.” Dostoevsky writes in his book that a life of faith is higher, better, purer, and happier than a life of doubt, cold, hurting, and confusing. Zosima and Alyosha love humans and are a symbol of faith, while Dostoevsky shows that he thinks that doubt is bad by Ivan's madness and Smerdyakov's murder. Dostoevsky also shows in the chapter “The Grand Inquisitor” that though faith may not be able to be solved by logic, there is something in it deep, moving, and impossible to explain by words – like in Jesus and Alyosha’s kiss, or in Zosima's bowing down to the ground. It also searches about free will: Ivan says that free will is a heavy burden, while Zosima and Alyosha agree that free will is a joy and a gift of God to humans. Another important theme is that of forgiveness: Zosima says everyone must forgive and love, and Alyosha never judges or criticizes people. Zosima says that people should forgive each other freely, because people's sins are so connected with each other that everybody has some responsibility for each other, like when Dmitry, without thinking much about it, grabs Captain Snegriev's beard and pulls him, leading finally to Ilyusha's death. People like Ivan do not like this idea: he continues to that he does not have any responsibility for other people's sins, and when he finally is forced to accept it, he becomes insane.\n\nDmitry also, though he did not kill his father, at first wants to suffer to find peace and a new life. Both brothers feel guilty as if they were the ones who killed their father. Alyosha's strong sense of responsibility makes Elder Zossima tell him to \"go out into the world\", for he has work to do there. Dostoevsky thought that people should be \"married\" to the world around them, for, he argues, everyone is a part of God's creation.\n\nThe existence of God has concerned people for a long time: is there a God, or not? Dostoevsky thought there was.\n\nHe wrote in his books the two opposite sides of the question: from Ivan, the atheist intellectual's view, and the Elder Zosima's view. The author called the part in which Ivan and Elder Zosima each speak their beliefs as \"the point of the novel\" (\"Letters\", 7567, 859). Dostoevsky wrote in his notebook about \"The Grand Inquisitor\": \"Those blockheads have never even conceived (thought of) so powerful a rejection of God as exists (is) in the Inquisitor and the preceding chapter (the chapter before it), to which the whole book will serve as answer. . . . Throughout Europe there has not been and does not exist so powerful an expression from the aesthetic point of view as mine.\"\n\nIn the book, Ivan's argument is that there is no justice in the world. He is very unhappy with the suffering of people on earth, and says: \"I must have retribution (justice), or I will destroy myself. And not retribution in some remote (far away) infinite time and space, but here on earth, and that I could see myself.\" But there \"is\" no absolute justice in the world. So, Ivan says that there are only two things that can be true: either God is not real, or if He is real, He must be an unjust and unwise God.\n\nIvan has also not forgotten Jesus Christ. When Alyosha exclaims, \"But...you asked whether there was in the world 'a single creature who could forgive'. Well, there is. And He can forgive everyone for everything, because He Himself gave His innocent blood for everyone's sins and for everyone's sake. You forgot to mention (talk about) Him...\" Ivan replies by the story of \"The Grand Inquisitor\". In \"The Grand Inquisitor\", Ivan shows to Alyosha what he believes is the wrong of Jesus' rule, and a possibly better, \"more just\" one.\n\nReaders immediately wrote letters to Dostoevsky after Book Five about \"The Grand Inquisitor\" was published in great worry, and Dostoevsky replied, \"...my hero's blasphemy will be triumphantly refuted (replied to) in the next issue, on which I am now working with fear, trembling, and veneration, since I consider my task (job) . . . a deed.\" However, when Book Six, Dostoevsky's \"answer\" to \"The Grand Inquisitor\", was published, he was much more worried: \"\"I don't know whether I succeeded. I reckon myself that I wasn't able to express one tenth of what I wanted...I tremble for it in this sense: will it be answer enough? . . . I wrote it with a great deal of love.\" D.H. Lawrence felt that \"we cannot doubt that the Inquisitor speaks Dostoevsky's own final opinion about Jesus.\"\n\nThe Elder Zosima's words before he dies is evidently Dostoevsky's \"reply\" to Ivan. Elder Zosima believes in a kind and just Jesus, who loves people very dearly and cares for them so much that he died for them.\n\nAbout suffering, the Elder Zosima says that since God is kind and just, all the suffering comes from man. But since everyone's lives are connected, Elder Zosima says, we cannot blame anybody: \"[A]ll is like an ocean, all is flowing and blending; a touch in one place sets up movement at the other end of the earth\". Instead of demanding justice, he says everyone should begin changing and forgiving each other. Instead of saying, \"nobody is guilty\", he says, \"everybody is responsible\".\n\nThe pain of suffering, according to Elder Zosima, is a passing thing - it will not last. He refers to the Book of Job and says,\n\nThough Dostoevsky wrote of Elder Zosima's reply as the reply of Ivan's arguments, he defends Christianity throughout the whole book and through the characters themselves. Elder Zosima is happy and respected, loved and loving, and dies peacefully and joyfully, but Ivan, who is so unhappy for the justice of humans, says, \"I could never understand how one could love one's neighbor\" and knocks a into the snow to freeze. \"'He will freeze,' thought Ivan, and he went on his way\". And at the end, his horror at the thought that he was, in a way, his father's murderer, drives him insane. Elder Zosima, however, is very different; he blesses and helps people even when he is dying, and \"Alyosha almost always noticed that many, almost all, went in to the elder for the first time with apprehension (fear) and , but almost always came out with bright and happy faces\". Even Ivan respects Father Zosima after meeting him and seriously \"receive[s] his blessing, [and] kisse[s] his hand\".\n\nThe narrator (person telling the story) is unnamed, and though he knows the coldness and darkness of the subjects he writes about, he writes warmly and inventively in a tone of serious comedy. Although the narrator is sometimes allowed to be , he also talks of himself as \"I\", says things that are not directly related to the plot, in a style that some people have criticized. It is possible that this writing style is because of the way Dostoevsky's books were written: in the day, he would hurriedly write down ideas in his notebook, and at night, his wife, Anna Snitkina Grigoryevna, who was a , would have them copied neatly out:\n\nThe critical reception of The Brothers Karamazov has been quite special and strong. Dostoevsky published his books in a series of journals, and every one made people argue about it and think very much about it. Sigmund Freud called it “the most magnificent novel ever written.” Franz Kafka was greatly influenced by Dostoevsky’s works.\n\nCritic Robin Feuer Miller wrote that \"The Brothers Karamazov\" was Dostoevsky's \"...last and arguably greatest novel.\"\n\nVirginia Woolf said, \"Alone among writers Dostoevsky has the power of reconstructing(making again) those most swift(quick) and complicated states of mind... This is the exact opposite of the method(way) adopted(used), perforce(for instance), by most of our novelists. They reproduce all the external(outside) appearances-tricks of manner, landscape, dress, and the effect of the hero upon his friends-but very rarely, and only for an instant, penetrate to the of thought which rages within his own mind. But the whole of a book by Dostoevsky is made out of such material... We have to get rid of the old tune which runs so persistently (continues) in our ears and to realize how little of our is expressed in that old tune.\"\n\nOn 7 June, 1880, on the night before his famous \"Pushkin speech\", he wrote at midnight to his wife: \"As I walked across the hall during intermission, a host of people, youths and graybeards and ladies, rushed toward me exclaiming, 'You're our prophet. We've become better people since we read The Karamazovs.' (In brief, I realized how tremendously important The Karamazovs is.)\" The next evening, after the triumph of his speech, he wrote to her, \"When I appeared on the stage, the auditorium thundered with applause... I bowed and made signs, begging them to let me read-but to no avail(no use): elation(joy), enthusiasm (all because of The Karamazovs)!\"\n\nHowever, not everybody loved \"The Brothers Karamazov\". Tchaikovsky, an important writer of music in Russia, was interested in \"The Brothers Karamazov\", but finally decided that it was \"\" and that all the characters were \"crazy\". Some people, like Henry James, Vladimir Nabokov and D. H. Lawrence were very critical of it (did not like it). For example, Lawrence said that in \"The Brothers Karamazov\", he did not like \"these Russians, morbidly wallowing (swimming) in adoration (love) of Jesus, then getting up and spitting in His beard... It's all , half-baked, and one gets tired of it. One gets tired of being told that Dostoevsky's Legend of the \"Grand Inquisitor\" 'is the most profound (deepest) declaration which ever was made about man and life.' ... The more Dostoevsky gets worked up (excited) about the tragic (sad) nature of the human soul, the more I lose interest. I have read the \"Grand Inquisitor\" three times, and never can remember what it's really about.\" He also said \"The Brothers Karamazov\" was too depressing \"because, alas, more drearily true to life. At first it had been lurid romance. Now I read \"The Grand Inquisitor\" once more, and my heart sinks right through my shoes.\"\n\n\n", "id": "220073", "title": "The Brothers Karamazov"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220158", "text": "Georgetown, Ontario\n\nGeorgetown is a community in Ontario, Canada. It is part of the town of Halton Hills, Ontario. A neighbouring community is Acton, Ontario.\n", "id": "220158", "title": "Georgetown, Ontario"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220159", "text": "July Revolution\n\nThe French Revolution of 1830, also known as the July Revolution, was the throwing off of Charles X of France from power. His cousin Louis-Philippe, the Duc d'Orléans became king. However, after 18 hard years on the throne, he, also, would be taken off the position of king. It showed the change from one kind of monarchy to another. This change was from the Bourbon Restoration to the July Monarchy. This also marked the change of power from the House of Bourbon to the House of Orléans. People who supported Bourbon would be called Legitimists. Supporters of Louis-Phillipe were called Orleanists. Louis-Philippe was king of the French (not King of France) until the French Revolution of 1848.\n\nOn September 16, 1824, Charles X came to the throne of France. He was the younger brother of Louis XVIII. When Napoléon Bonaparte was defeated, he had become King of France. Both Louis and Charles ruled because of their birth, not because a great number of people wanted them to. This was the first of two things that began \"Les Trois Glorieuses\", the \"Three Glorious Days\" of the July Revolution.\n\nWhen Napoleon in 1814, Europe, and mostly France, was in great confusion. The Congress of Vienna met to draw the continent's political map again. A great number of European countries came to the congress. However, there were four most important powers that controlled the decision. These powers were the United Kingdom, Austria, Russia, and Prussia, represented by King Frederick William III. Another very important person at the Congress was Charles Maurice de Talleyrand. He was a French under Napoleon. France was considered an enemy state.\n\nTalleyrand suggested that Europe go back to its first, \"legitimate\" government. He meant the government before Napoleon. This plan was largely accepted by members of the Congress. France went back to its 1789 borders and the House of Bourbon came back to the throne. In the eyes of the Congress, the political situation in France and Europe was now back to normal. However, the new king, Louis XVIII, felt that ideas of nationalism and democracy were still in his country. So, they made and signed the \"Charte constitutionnelle française\", the French Constitution. It is also known as \"La Charte\". This was the second thing that began the July Revolution.\n\nPeople quickly learned about the Saint-Cloud \"ordonnances\" from the \"Le Moniteur\". Angrily, workers were fired, and business closed down. Unemployment, which had been growing through early summer, increased. \"Large numbers of... workers therefore had nothing to do but protest.\"\n\nNewspapers such as the \"Journal des débats\", \"Le Moniteur Universel (Le Moniteur)\", and \"Le Constitutionnel\" had already stopped being put in print. This was because of the new law. Almost 50 journalists from 12 city newspapers met in the offices of the liberal \"Le National\". There they signed a protest, and promised their newspapers would continue to run.\n\nThat evening, police came to a news press and took away newspapers that were against the law. An angry, unemployed mob shouted hotly, \"\"A bas les Bourbons!\" \"Vive la Charte!!\"\" Armand Carrel, a Republican journalist, wrote in the \"Le National\":\n\"France... falls back into revolution by the act of the government itself... the legal regime is now interrupted, that of force has begun... in the situation in which we are now placed obedience has ceased to be a duty... It is for France to judge how far its own resistance ought to extend.\"\nAs if living in a dream world, the Paris \"Préfet de Police\" wrote on the evening, \" ...the most perfect tranquility (peace) continues to reign (rule) in all parts of the capital. No event ... of attention is recorded in the reports that have come through to me.\"\n\n", "id": "220159", "title": "July Revolution"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220186", "text": "Baja Bug\n\nA Baja Bug is an original Volkswagen Beetle changed so that it can operate in open desert, sand dunes and beaches. Other kinds of air-cooled Volkswagens are sometimes changed this way.\n\nBaja Bugs were first made in Southern California in the late 1960s as an inexpensive answer to the commercial-built, Volkswagen-based dune buggies of the mid-1960s, especially the Meyers Manx.\n\nThe first Baja Bug may have been built by Gary Emory of Parts Obsolete in or around 1968. The first racing Baja Bug is credited to automotive cartoonist Dave Deal, whose car was raced in the Mexican 1000 of 1968. The first fiberglass body kit was introduced in 1969 by the Miller-Havens company.\n\nIn the days before fiberglass body parts, builders simply changed a stock VW. The car's metal body parts were partially cut away to allow more ground clearance and suspension travel. This came to be known as a \"cut baja\". More engine power was had by using cylinder heads and sometimes even fuel injection systems from VW Type 3 cars.\n\nThe Beetle was popular in places with few roads because of its rear-mounted air-cooled engine, flat floorpan, and torsion bar suspension. In fact, magazine advertising of the time said that the Beetle was so watertight it floated. These good things made the Beetle the perfect choice to make into an off-road car. It was successful both then and now in the Baja 1000 off-road race.\n\nBasic changes are simple. Lightweight fiberglass body panels are fitted after the metal body parts front and rear are removed. The rear change leaves the engine totally open to aid in cooling. Tubular steel bumpers are fitted to the body and floorpan to protect the engine and those riding in the car. Shortened fiberglass fenders and sometimes more tubular steel parts are added to the car's sides. The torsion bar front and rear suspensions made it easy to raise the body and to allow the use of large off-road tires and wheels as well as longer shock absorbers. Some people even get rid of the torsion bar suspension and install coilover-type springs that mount to a roll cage. This kind of car would have lots of suspension travel and a smooth ride.\n\nThough few Baja Bugs are built anymore since the creation of tube-framed, purpose-built buggies known as sand rails and the shrinking supply of early Volkswagens, they remain a popular choice in the desert since few beaches in the US are open to for use by cars or motorcycles. Many are fitted with highly modified Volkswagen engines and a few have engines from such cars as the Ford Pinto, Chevrolet Corvair, Porsche, Mazda, Subaru or other four- to eight-cylinder water-cooled engines. Fancy Baja Bugs for use only on roads remain popular as well.\n\nVolkswagen itself created a concept car in 2000 called \"Dune\" and was meant to remind people of the Baja Bug.\n\n", "id": "220186", "title": "Baja Bug"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220194", "text": "Nuno Valente\n\nNuno Valente (born 12 September 1974) is a former Portuguese football player. He has played for Portugal national team.\n\n235||4\n45||0\n280||4\n\n!Total||32||1\n", "id": "220194", "title": "Nuno Valente"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220195", "text": "Stefano Okaka Chuka\n\nStefano Okaka Chuka (born 9 August 1989) is an Italian football player. He plays for Fulham.\n\n79||11||10||1||colspan=\"2\"|-||13||3||102||15\n0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0\n79||11||10||1||0||0||13||3||102||15\n", "id": "220195", "title": "Stefano Okaka Chuka"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220196", "text": "Chris James\n\nChris James (born 4 July 1987) is a New Zealand football player. He plays for New Zealand national team.\n\n0||0\n19||4\n19||4\n\n!Total||12||0\n", "id": "220196", "title": "Chris James"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220197", "text": "Junnosuke Schneider\n\nJunnosuke Schneider (born 22 May 1977) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Yokohama.\n\n183||0||9||0||0||0||192||0\n183||0||9||0||0||0||192||0\n", "id": "220197", "title": "Junnosuke Schneider"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220198", "text": "Liam Rosenior\n\nLiam Rosenior (born 9 July 1984) is an English football player. He plays for Ipswich Town.\n\n178||3||11||0||6||1||195||4\n178||3||11||0||6||1||195||4\n", "id": "220198", "title": "Liam Rosenior"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220201", "text": "Hiroshi Ochiai\n\n267||56\n267||56\n\n!Total||63||9\n\n", "id": "220201", "title": "Hiroshi Ochiai"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220202", "text": "Yoshiyuki Matsuyama\n\n181||21||14||2||28||9||223||32\n181||21||14||2||26||7||223||32\n\n!Total||10||4\n\n", "id": "220202", "title": "Yoshiyuki Matsuyama"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220203", "text": "Quim\n\nQuim (born 13 November 1975) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Benfica.\n\n309||0||32||0||3||0||34||0||378||0\n309||0||32||0||3||0||34||0||378||0\n\n!Total||32||0\n", "id": "220203", "title": "Quim"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220204", "text": "Fernando Meira\n\nFernando Meira (born 5 June 1978) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Zenit Saint Petersburg.\n\n132||4||9||0||2||0||143||4\n173||11||15||0||29||2||217||13\n21||0||6||0||10||0||37||0\n22||1||2||0||2||0||26||1\n348||16||32||0||43||2||423||18\n\n!Total||52||2\n", "id": "220204", "title": "Fernando Meira"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220205", "text": "Mantorras\n\nMantorras (born 18 March 1982) is an Angolan football player. He plays for Benfica and Angola national team.\n\n131||38\n131||38\n\n!Total||27||4\n", "id": "220205", "title": "Mantorras"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220209", "text": "Nuno Gomes\n\nNuno Gomes (born 5 July 1976) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Benfica and Portugal national team.\n\nHe started his career from Boavista in 1994. In 1997, he changed team and he went to Benfica. In 2000/01 season, he went to Fiorentina and in 2002/03 season he returned to Benfica.\n\n351||141||25||15||1||1||65||27||442||184\n53||14||4||3||colspan=\"2\"|-||6||2||63||19\n404||155||29||18||1||1||71||29||505||203\n\n!Total||76||29\n", "id": "220209", "title": "Nuno Gomes"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220211", "text": "Nino Bule\n\nNino Bule (born 19 March 1976) is a Croatian football player. He has played for Croatia national team.\n\n238||61\n40||23\n51||10\n11||1\n340||95\n\n!Total||3||0\n", "id": "220211", "title": "Nino Bule"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220212", "text": "Vjekoslav Škrinjar\n\nVjekoslav Škrinjar (born 2 June 1969) is a former Croatian football player.\n\n30||3||4||0||11||2||45||5\n30||3||4||0||11||2||45||5\n", "id": "220212", "title": "Vjekoslav Škrinjar"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220213", "text": "José Carlos Garcia Leal\n\nJosé Carlos Garcia Leal (born 15 July 1980) is a Brazilian football player.\n\n121||16||||||||||121||16\n88||16||5||0||11||4||104||20\n209||32||5||0||11||4||225||36\n", "id": "220213", "title": "José Carlos Garcia Leal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220214", "text": "Tiago Mendes\n\nTiago Mendes (born 2 May 1981) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Atlético Madrid and Portugal national team.\n\n137||23||||||||||||||137||23\n34||4||2||0||4||0||11||0||51||4\n56||9||5||0||3||0||16||4||80||13\n42||0||5||0||colspan=\"2\"|-||6||0||53||0\n0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0\n269||36||12||0||7||0||33||4||321||40\n!Total||47||1\n", "id": "220214", "title": "Tiago Mendes"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220215", "text": "Comparative anatomy\n\nComparative anatomy is the scientific comparison of animal bodies. The purpose of comparative anatomy is to see their working structure, and to decide upon the phylogenetic relationships between different groups of animals. The separation of animals into phyla is done mainly by comparative anatomy: see List of animal phyla.\n\nThe main techniques used are dissection and microscopy. Dissection is an ancient method used to find out the inside structure of a living thing (usually done after it is dead). It is still used by medical students to learn about the details of the human body. Simple microscopes were first invented in the 17th century, and the compound microscope (still used today) became available in the 19th century. The purpose of microscopy is to let us see the small details of structure. Also, the careful comparison of large collections of animals (usually in museums) is often done.\n\nThe great era of comparative anatomy was from about 1800 to about 1950. It was used by those who did not believe in evolution, such as Georges Cuvier, and by those who did, such as Thomas Henry Huxley. Charles Darwin himself used comparative anatomy as the main tool in his work on barnacles. Nowadays, the main method used to find out relationships is molecular evolution, which uses DNA sequence analysis. However, for many research purposes, zoologists still dissect animals. To get a degree in biology, you need to know about the structure of animals (and plants).\n", "id": "220215", "title": "Comparative anatomy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220218", "text": "Dissection\n\nDissection is a standard laboratory technique in biology and pathology. To dissect is to cut up a body so as to reveal its structure. The body could be that of a human, an animal, or a plant. Dissections are regularly done in autopsies to help determine the cause of death. They are done by zoologists to find out the internal structure of animal bodies. The comparative anatomy of animals, revealed by dissections, gives clues as to their evolutionary relationships.\n", "id": "220218", "title": "Dissection"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220225", "text": "List of animal phyla\n\nList of animal phyla is a list of the major groups of animals usually classified as a phylum. Modern sources have been used: the list is different from that of Linnaeus or Cuvier. A list of this type may be arranged alphabetically; but equally it might be arranged according to evolutionary relationships. No list will be completely satisfactory. Authorities differ in what they consider a phylum, and in the actual name of the phylum. Despite this, there is agreement on most phyla. Most modern surveys include groups above the phylum: superphyletic groupings based on evidence of common descent. \n\nDifferences of opinion about evolutionary relationships have been reduced by the use of molecular evolution and molecular clock research. These make use of protein amino acid sequences, and whole genome DNA sequence analysis. These modern techniques have led to changes and renaming of many higher categories. Classification based on traditional comparative anatomy had errors which needed to be corrected. So, for example, the old phylum Coelenterata, which had stood for almost two hundred years, was split down into two separate phyla, the Cnidaria and the Ctenophora.\n\nThe following list is based on evolutionary relationships:\n\nMajor groups in large type.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDepending on how one counts, the list contains 32 (or 39) phyla of metazoan animals. Of these, 20 are minor phyla, and at least 21 are exclusively aquatic, with several others in quasi-aquatic habitats on land. \"None\" are entirely terrestrial. This is testimony to the importance of water for life, and to the sea in particular. It is fairly certain that all phyla originated in the sea or, at any rate, in water. Most made their first showing in the Cambrian, or in the Ediacaran. Naturally, most of the soft-bodied phyla have left few fossils.\n\nPhyla may be grouped according to evidence about their evolutionary relationships. The list above puts similar groups together.\n\nThis kind of megataxonomy is becoming more convincing as DNA sequence analysis proceeds through the phyla. Some entirely fossil groups are still placed where they are on anatomy and commonsense rather than hard molecular evidence. The trilobites are a good example. Their position in the Arthropoda is based on not much more than their bilateral symmetry and an exoskeleton. These groupings are discussed further in the references to this page.\n\nThis table has the advantage of being sortable. The terminology differs in places from the above descriptions. Also, by listing living species only for most phyla, those with huge fossil records (like Bryozoa and Brachiopods) are lower in the order despite being important aquatic forms in the Palaeozoic era.\n\nThis list is to help when you read older literature which may use out-of-date terms.\n\n", "id": "220225", "title": "List of animal phyla"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220230", "text": "Orthoptera\n\nOrthoptera are an order of insects. The order contains grasshoppers, katydids, and crickets. \"Ortho\" means \"straight\", so \"Orthoptera\" means \"straight wings\".\nThis means the front wings, called \"tegmina\", are stiff, straight, and not used for flying. The back wings are membranous and are folded like a fan under the front wings when the insect is not flying. Many species use their wings to make sounds, which we usually call \"chirping\" noises.\n\nOrthopteran insects start life in an egg case. After three weeks – or when spring comes – the tiny nymphs come out from the egg case. After four or five molts, they have wings. This shows that they are adults and are ready to reproduce.\n\nTheir sounds are produced by using file-like edges to their wings, or wing veins. In some groups the wing edges are rubbed together, in others the hind limb is rubbed against a wing edge. Each sound is unique to the species, and its function is identification for mating purposes. It is males which make the sound, and females move towards it.\n\nIn the order Orthoptera, members chew their food, using their mandibles (jaws). Crickets are omnivores, which means they eat both plants and animals. Actually, they will eat almost anything: vegetables, cereal, and even their own mate if they are hungry enough. Katydids are mostly herbivores (plant eaters), though they will eat their own mate, too, if \"they\" are hungry enough. They also enjoy eating aphids and other small, slow-moving creatures. Grasshoppers almost always eat plants like grass, wheat bran, and lettuce, and they can be terrible crop pests.\n\nIt's quite hard to catch a member of Orthoptera because they jump so well. They have amazing legs - a grasshopper can jump 20 times farther than the length of its body. Their back legs are very large and long. These long, strong legs give these insects their great ability to jump.\n\nCrickets, katydids, and grasshoppers are in the same order of Orthoptera because they are alike in many ways. However, there are several things that make them different from each other.\n\nFirst, their colors are usually quite different. Since grasshoppers like to move during the daytime, their colors are similar to grass and bright flowers, making them usually green, light brown, or multicolored (lots of different colors at once). Crickets move at night, so they are dark. Katydids like to spend a lot of time on leaves, so they are often leaf-colored, and their wings can look like leaves. Their wings can have the same vein patterns as leaves, and they often have little brown spots just like the ones that might be found on a leaf.\n\nSecondly, their behaviors are different. Grasshoppers like being active in the day; crickets, at night; katydids, in the late afternoon and evening.\n\nThirdly, their antennae is different. Katydids and crickets usually have long, thin antennae, while grasshoppers usually have short, thick ones. Of course, this rule does is \"not\" perfect – for instance, even though grasshoppers \"usually\" have short, thick antennae, the long-horned grasshopper has long, thin antennae like a cricket. Because of this, it is still sometimes hard to tell the members of this order apart.\n\n", "id": "220230", "title": "Orthoptera"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220236", "text": "Chios\n\nChios is the fifth largest Greek island. Its total area is 842 Km. It is in the northeast of Aegean Sea, near Asia Minor coast. The biggest town of the island is Chios city. 51,936 people lived there according to the 2001 Greek census.\n", "id": "220236", "title": "Chios"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220250", "text": "Corfu\n\nCorfu (or \"Kerkyra\") is the seventh-largest Greek island. It is in the Ionian Sea northwest of Greece. The island has a total area of . In 2001, 109,537 people lived on the island. Corfu city is the largest city on Corfu. \n\nIn ancient times, Corfu was a colony of ancient Corinth. This colony was one of the causes for beginning the Peloponnesian War. Later, the island became a part of the Roman Empire. It was also a part of the Byzantine Empire. The island has been controlled by many countries. In the thirteenth century, the Venetians took control of the island. They controlled it until 1797. During this time, the Ottomans attacked the island two times. They attacked in 1537 and again in 1716. Under Napoleon's rule, the French took the island. They lost control of it to the Russians and Turks in 1799. Control of the island was given back to the French in 1807 and in 1815 to the English. In 1864, the United Kingdom gave Corfu, with the other Ionian islands, to Greece. In the nineteenth century, the Empress Elisabeth of Austria, also known as Sissi, built a palace on the island. The palace is known as Achilleion. The name of the palace comes from a statue of an ancient hero, Achilles.\n\nTourism is a very large part of the economy of Corfu. It is one of the most touristic islands in the Mediterranean Sea. Every year, many tourists visit the island. Corfu has many forests and olive trees. It also has many beaches. There are many other places of interest on the island. The city of Corfu has an appearance from an older time. It has many Venetian, Napoleonic, and Georgian buildings. The town is an UNESCO monument. A very important place is Achilleion. It was the palace of Empress Sissi. The rest of island has many villages, beaches and famous castles.\n\nThe island is also well known for entertainment. There are many places which have entertainment. These include bars, night clubs and cafes. The part of the island which is full of places of entertainment is Kavos. Kavos is popular with English tourists.\n", "id": "220250", "title": "Corfu"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220271", "text": "Adoram Keisi\n\nAdoram Keisi (; born June 17, 1972) is a retired Israeli professional football (soccer) player. Keisi was playing as a Left Back (defender), and he was known as a great header and as a winner that scores crucial goals when needed (such as the equalizer to Hapoel Tel Aviv or the goal that he scored against Sturm Graz, a goal that gave Maccabi Haifa F.C. the way to the UEFA Champions League group table.\n\n\n", "id": "220271", "title": "Adoram Keisi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220307", "text": "Alfa Romeo\n\nAlfa Romeo Automobiles S.p.A. is an Italian car manufacturer created on June 24, 1910 in Milan. Alfa Romeo has been a part of the Fiat Group since 1986, and since February 2007 a part of Fiat Group Automobiles S.p.A. The company was originally known as A.L.F.A., which stands for Anonima Lombarda Fabbrica Automobili (English: Lombard Automobile Factory, Public Company).\n", "id": "220307", "title": "Alfa Romeo"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220318", "text": "Gangster\n\nA gangster, mobster, or gangsta is a criminal who is a member of a crime organization, such as a gang. The terms are widely used in reference to members of gangs associated with American prohibition and the American offshoot of the Mafia, such as the Chicago Outfit or the Five Families. The related word \"mobster\" is a term derived from Latin and Aramaic. A gang is a group of people who, through the organization, formation, and establishment of an assemblage, share a common identity.\n\nIn early usage, the word gang referred to a group of workmen. In the United Kingdom the word is still often used in this sense.\n", "id": "220318", "title": "Gangster"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220328", "text": "Peter Buck\n\nPeter Lawrence Buck (born December 6, 1956 in Berkeley, California) is an American guitarist and songwriter. He is best known for being a member of the alternative rock band R.E.M..\n\nIn 2007 Peter Buck, along with the other three members of R.E.M., was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.\n\nHis main instrument that he has used for his entire music career is a back Rickenbacker 360 electric guitar. On September 9, 2008, after a concert in Helsinki, his famous black guitar was stolen. On September 18, 2008 it was given back to him. The name of the person who returned it is not known.\n", "id": "220328", "title": "Peter Buck"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220330", "text": "Interstate 15\n\nInterstate 15 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from San Diego, California north to Sweetgrass, Montana at the Canada border. It also connects the cities of Las Vegas, Nevada and Salt Lake City, Utah. The route is long and passes through the states of California, Nevada, Arizona, Utah, Idaho, and Montana.\n", "id": "220330", "title": "Interstate 15"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220331", "text": "Interstate 16\n\nInterstate 16 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Georgia in the United States. It goes from Macon east to Savannah. The route is long.\n", "id": "220331", "title": "Interstate 16"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220332", "text": "Interstate 17\n\nInterstate 17 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Arizona in the United States. It goes from Phoenix north to Flagstaff. The route is long.\n", "id": "220332", "title": "Interstate 17"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220333", "text": "Interstate 19\n\nInterstate 19 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Arizona in the United States. It goes from Nogales at the Mexico border north to Tucson. The route is long.\n", "id": "220333", "title": "Interstate 19"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220334", "text": "Interstate 20\n\nInterstate 20 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Kent, Texas east to Florence, South Carolina. The route is long.\n\nThe state of North Carolina wanted to expand the interstate to Wilmington, North Carolina. This was not approved by the South Carolina government and the United States government, though.\n", "id": "220334", "title": "Interstate 20"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220335", "text": "Interstate 22\n\nInterstate 22 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Memphis, Tennessee, east to Birmingham, Alabama, on U.S. Route 78.\n", "id": "220335", "title": "Interstate 22"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220336", "text": "Interstate 24\n\nInterstate 24 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Goreville, Illinois southeast to East Ridge, Tennessee. The route is long.\n", "id": "220336", "title": "Interstate 24"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220337", "text": "Interstate 25\n\nInterstate 25 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Las Cruces, New Mexico north to Buffalo, Wyoming. Cities in between include Albuquerque, New Mexico; Santa Fe, New Mexico; Pueblo, Colorado; Colorado Springs, Colorado; Denver, Colorado; Cheyenne, Wyoming; and Casper, Wyoming. The route is long.\n", "id": "220337", "title": "Interstate 25"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220339", "text": "Interstate 26\n\nInterstate 26 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Kingsport, Tennessee southeast to Charleston, South Carolina. The route is long.\n", "id": "220339", "title": "Interstate 26"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220341", "text": "Interstate 27\n\nInterstate 27 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Texas in the United States. It goes from Lubbock north to Amarillo. The route is long.\n", "id": "220341", "title": "Interstate 27"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220342", "text": "Interstate 29\n\nInterstate 29 (I-29) is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Kansas City, Missouri, north to Pembina, North Dakota, at the Canada border. The route is long.\n\nI-29 starts in Kansas City, Missouri. It is a very hilly route, and it is surrounded by forests. It travels north through the city of St. Joseph, and then enters Iowa. In Iowa, I-29 runs near the Missouri River and runs through many cities that were settled on the river like Council Bluffs, which is a suburb of Omaha, and Sioux City. North of Sioux City, the highway curves to the west and enters South Dakota. Here the route becomes very flat and the area around the highway turns to plains. I-29 passes by Sioux Falls, Brookings, and Watertown. Then, it enters the Glacier Lakes area of South Dakota, which is very hilly. North of here, the route enters North Dakota and becomes flat again. In North Dakota, I-29 runs just to the west of the Red River of the North. It runs through Fargo and Grand Forks before it reaches the Canadian border. I-29 ends here, but the road continues north into Canada, and is known as Manitoba Highway 29.\n", "id": "220342", "title": "Interstate 29"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220344", "text": "Interstate 30\n\nInterstate 30 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from the Fort Worth, Texas area east to Little Rock, Arkansas. The route is long.\n", "id": "220344", "title": "Interstate 30"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220345", "text": "Interstate 35\n\nInterstate 35 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Laredo, Texas at the Mexico border north to Duluth, Minnesota. The route is long.\n\nIn June 2015, the highway was closed because of high water and a rock slide caused by Tropical Storm Bill. On June 18, the southbound lanes opened. It was not known when the northbound lanes would open.\n", "id": "220345", "title": "Interstate 35"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220346", "text": "Interstate 37\n\nInterstate 37 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Texas in the United States. It goes from Corpus Christi north to San Antonio. The route is long.\n", "id": "220346", "title": "Interstate 37"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220347", "text": "Interstate 39\n\nInterstate 39 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Normal, Illinois north to Rothschild, Wisconsin. The route is long.\n", "id": "220347", "title": "Interstate 39"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220348", "text": "Interstate 40\n\nInterstate 40, or I-40 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Barstow, California in the west to Wilmington, North Carolina in the east. The route is long. From west to east, it goes throughout the states of California, Arizona, New Mexico, Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, Tennessee, and North Carolina. Some big cities it goes through are Albuquerque, New Mexico, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, Little Rock, Arkansas, Memphis, Tennessee, Nashville, Tennessee, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, Greensboro, North Carolina, Durham, North Carolina, and Raleigh, North Carolina.\n", "id": "220348", "title": "Interstate 40"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220349", "text": "Interstate 43\n\nInterstate 43 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. It goes from Beloit north to Green Bay. The route is long.\n", "id": "220349", "title": "Interstate 43"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220350", "text": "Interstate 44\n\nInterstate 44 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Wichita Falls, Texas northeast to St. Louis, Missouri. The route is long.\n", "id": "220350", "title": "Interstate 44"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220351", "text": "Interstate 45\n\nInterstate 45 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Texas in the United States. It goes from Galveston north to Dallas. The route is long.\n", "id": "220351", "title": "Interstate 45"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220352", "text": "Interstate 49\n\nInterstate 49 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Louisiana in the United States. It goes from Lafayette north to Shreveport. The route is long.\n", "id": "220352", "title": "Interstate 49"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220353", "text": "Interstate 55\n\nInterstate 55 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Laplace, Louisiana north to Chicago, Illinois. The route is long.\n", "id": "220353", "title": "Interstate 55"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220354", "text": "Interstate 57\n\nInterstate 57 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Miner, Missouri north to Chicago, Illinois. The route is long.\n", "id": "220354", "title": "Interstate 57"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220355", "text": "Interstate 59\n\nInterstate 59 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Slidell, Louisiana northeast to Wildwood, Georgia. The route is long.\n", "id": "220355", "title": "Interstate 59"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220356", "text": "Interstate 64\n\nInterstate 64 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Wentzville, Missouri east to Chesapeake, Virginia. The route is long.\n", "id": "220356", "title": "Interstate 64"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220357", "text": "Interstate 65\n\nInterstate 65 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Mobile, Alabama north to Gary, Indiana. The route is long.\n", "id": "220357", "title": "Interstate 65"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220358", "text": "Interstate 66\n\nInterstate 66 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Middletown, Virginia east to Washington, D.C.. The route is long.\n", "id": "220358", "title": "Interstate 66"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220359", "text": "Interstate 68\n\nInterstate 68 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Morgantown, West Virginia east to Hancock, Maryland. The route is long.\n", "id": "220359", "title": "Interstate 68"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220362", "text": "Interstate 69\n\nInterstate 69 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. The main part of it goes from Indianapolis, Indiana north to Port Huron, Michigan at the Canada border. This part of the route is long. There are also parts of Interstate 69 in Mississippi and near Evansville, Indiana that are not currently connected to the other part. They will be connected when Interstate 69 is built from Indianapolis southwest to Texas.\n", "id": "220362", "title": "Interstate 69"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220363", "text": "Interstate 70\n\nInterstate 70 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Cove Fort, Utah east to Baltimore, Maryland. The route is long and travels through 10 states. It also goes through some major cities in the heart of America including Denver, Kansas City, St. Louis, Indianapolis, and Columbus.\n", "id": "220363", "title": "Interstate 70"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220364", "text": "Interstate 71\n\nInterstate 71 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Louisville, Kentucky northeast to Cleveland, Ohio. The route is long.\n", "id": "220364", "title": "Interstate 71"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220365", "text": "Interstate 72\n\nInterstate 72 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Hannibal, Missouri east to Champaign, Illinois. The route is long.\n", "id": "220365", "title": "Interstate 72"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220366", "text": "Interstate 73\n\nInterstate 73 is an Interstate Highway in the state of North Carolina in the United States. The route goes from Candor north to Greensboro. This road is to be a part of a longer Interstate 73 going from South Carolina to Michigan.\n", "id": "220366", "title": "Interstate 73"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220367", "text": "Interstate 74\n\nInterstate 74 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. The main part of it goes from Davenport, Iowa east to Cincinnati, Ohio. There are three parts of Interstate 74 that are in North Carolina, with no part being connected. All four parts of Interstate 74 will become part of one road. Interstate 74 was long as of October 31, 2002.\n", "id": "220367", "title": "Interstate 74"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220368", "text": "Interstate 76 (west)\n\nInterstate 76 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Arvada, Colorado northeast to Big Springs, Nebraska. The route is long.\n", "id": "220368", "title": "Interstate 76 (west)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220369", "text": "Interstate 76 (east)\n\nInterstate 76 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Westfield Center, Ohio east to Bellmawr, New Jersey. The route is long.\n\nJust west of Youngstown, I-76 joins the Ohio Turnpike and heads around the south side of Youngstown. In Pennsylvania, I-76 runs across most of the state on the Pennsylvania Turnpike. It passes near Pittsburgh and Harrisburg before leaving the Turnpike to enter Philadelphia. It is called the Schuylkill Expressway in Philadelphia. It crossing the Walt Whitman Bridge into New Jersey. After Interstate 76 reaches its eastern terminus, the freeway continues as Route 42 and the Atlantic City Expressway to Atlantic City.\n", "id": "220369", "title": "Interstate 76 (east)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220370", "text": "Interstate 77\n\nInterstate 77 is an Interstate Highway in the eastern United States. It goes from Columbia, South Carolina north to Cleveland, Ohio. The route is long. It traverses diverse terrain, from the mountainous state of West Virginia to the rolling farmlands of North Carolina and Ohio. It largely supplants the old U.S. Route 21 between Cleveland, Ohio, and Columbia, South Carolina, as an important north–south corridor through the middle Appalachians. The southern terminus of Interstate 77 is in Columbia at the junction with Interstate 26. The northern terminus is in Cleveland at the junction with Interstate 90.\n\nThe East River Mountain Tunnel, connecting Virginia and West Virginia, is one of only two instances in the United States where a mountain \"road\" tunnel crosses a state line. The other is the Cumberland Gap Tunnel, connecting Tennessee and Kentucky.\n", "id": "220370", "title": "Interstate 77"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220371", "text": "Interstate 78\n\nInterstate 78 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Union Township, Lebanon County, Pennsylvania east to New York City. The route is long.\n\nOn the west, it starts at Interstate 81 northeast of Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. It passes through Allentown, Pennsylvania, and western and northern New Jersey. It goes in the Holland Tunnel to end in Lower Manhattan in New York City.\n\nI-78 is a major road linking ports in the New York City and New Jersey area to points west. Over 4 million trucks use it annually. Trucks are 24% of all traffic. Truck traffic on the road is projected to rise once the widening of the Panama Canal is completed in 2015. With a wider canal, more Asian ships are expected to use East Coast ports.\n", "id": "220371", "title": "Interstate 78"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220372", "text": "Interstate 79\n\nInterstate 79 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Charleston, West Virginia north to Erie, Pennsylvania. The route is long. It is a primary thoroughfare through western Pennsylvania and West Virginia. It is also an important corridor to Buffalo, New York, and the Canadian border. From Sutton north, Interstate 79 generally parallels the path of U.S. Route 19. With the exception of the area between Washington and Cranberry Township, Pennsylvania, I-79 functionally replaces U.S. Route 19.\n\nIn West Virginia, Interstate 79 is called the Jennings Randolph Expressway. In the three most northern counties it is part of the \"High Tech Corridor\". Through most of Pennsylvania, it is called the Raymond P. Shafer Highway.\n", "id": "220372", "title": "Interstate 79"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220373", "text": "Interstate 80\n\nInterstate 80 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from San Francisco, California east to Teaneck, New Jersey (just outside of New York City). The route is long and passes through 11 states. I-80 crosses the states of California, Nevada, Utah, Wyoming, Nebraska, Iowa, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and New Jersey.\n\nI-80 is the Interstate Highway that most closely follows the route of the historic Lincoln Highway, the first road across America. The highway roughly traces other historically significant travel routes in the Western United States: the Oregon Trail across Wyoming and Nebraska, the California Trail across most of Nevada and California, and except in the Great Salt Lake area, the entire route of the First Transcontinental Railroad.\n\nFrom near Chicago, Illinois, east to near Youngstown, Ohio, Interstate 80 is a toll road, containing the majority of both the Indiana Toll Road and the Ohio Turnpike. It also has a small part of the Illinois Tollway. I-80 and Interstate 90 share the same road from near Portage, Indiana to Elyria, Ohio. I-80 becomes the Keystone Shortway (a freeway built across rural northern Pennsylvania.) The eastern end of I-80 is its junction with the New Jersey Turnpike and Interstate 95 just west of the George Washington Bridge entering New York City.\n", "id": "220373", "title": "Interstate 80"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220374", "text": "Interstate 83\n\nInterstate 83 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Baltimore, Maryland north to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania. The route is long. Most of the route south of Lemoyne, Pennsylvania is a direct replacement of US 111, a former spur of US 11.\n\nThe Jones Falls Expressway, known to local residents as the JFX, is a long freeway. It is the part of Interstate 83 from downtown Baltimore to the northern suburbs. I-83 then joins I-695 (Baltimore Beltway) for 1.4 miles. After separating from the Beltway, I-83 is now known as the Baltimore-Harrisburg Expressway. Running due north away from the Beltway, I-83 goes next to Maryland Route 45 York Road, the former route of US 111. I-83 goes to the west of Timonium and Cockeysville.\n\nI-83 enters Pennsylvania southeast of New Freedom, passing to the east of Shrewsbury and goes due north towards York. The route goes around the boroughs of Loganville and Jacobus before entering the city of York. North of Pennsylvania Route 295, I-83 is known as the Susquehanna Expressway. I-83 has this name as it passes to the south and west of Valley Green. I-83 then goes north towards Harrisburg. South of Harrisburg, I-83 interchanges with Interstate 76, the Pennsylvania Turnpike. North of I-76, I-83 continues due north, passing through New Cumberland, before merging with Pennsylvania Route 581 in Lemoyne.\n\nAfter merging with PA 581, I-83 is known as the Harrisburg Expressway. The highway turns due east within the merge and crosses the Susquehanna River over the John Harris Bridge, south of Harrisburg's central business district. It ends at an interchange with Interstate 81.\nI-83 has only one spur route: Interstate 283, a connector to Interstate 76 and PA 283 southeast of Harrisburg.\n\n", "id": "220374", "title": "Interstate 83"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220375", "text": "Interstate 84 (east)\n\nInterstate 84 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Dunmore, Pennsylvania east to Sturbridge, Massachusetts. The route is long.\n", "id": "220375", "title": "Interstate 84 (east)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220377", "text": "Interstate 85\n\nInterstate 85 is an Interstate Highway in the Southeastern United States. It goes from Montgomery, Alabama northeast to Petersburg, Virginia. The route is long.\n", "id": "220377", "title": "Interstate 85"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220378", "text": "Interstate 86 (west)\n\nInterstate 86 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Idaho in the United States. It goes from Declo east to Chubbock. The route is long.\n", "id": "220378", "title": "Interstate 86 (west)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220379", "text": "Interstate 86 (east)\n\nInterstate 86 is an Interstate Highway in the United States in two parts. The west part goes from Erie, Pennsylvania east to Elmira, New York. The east part goes from Binghamton, New York east to Windsor. The two parts of the route add up to .\n", "id": "220379", "title": "Interstate 86 (east)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220383", "text": "Interstate 87\n\nInterstate 87 is an Interstate Highway in the state of New York in the United States. It goes from New York City north to Champlain at the Canada border. The route is long. The southern half of the interstate (between NYC and Albany) is part of the New York State Thruway (tollway). North of Albany, the highway is called the Adirondack Northway. Its short length through the NYC borough of the Bronx is called the Major Deegan Expressway.\n", "id": "220383", "title": "Interstate 87"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220386", "text": "Interstate 88 (west)\n\nInterstate 88 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Illinois in the United States. It goes from Silvis east to Hillside. The route is long. It is named after American president Ronald Reagan.\n", "id": "220386", "title": "Interstate 88 (west)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220387", "text": "Interstate 88 (east)\n\nInterstate 88 is an Interstate Highway in the state of New York in the United States. It goes from Chenango northeast to Rotterdam. The route is long.\n", "id": "220387", "title": "Interstate 88 (east)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220388", "text": "Interstate 89\n\nInterstate 89 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Concord, New Hampshire north to Highgate Springs, Vermont at the Canada border. The route is long.\n", "id": "220388", "title": "Interstate 89"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220389", "text": "Interstate 93\n\nInterstate 93 is an Interstate Highway in the New England region of the United States. It goes from Canton, Massachusetts north to St. Johnsbury, Vermont. The route is long.\n", "id": "220389", "title": "Interstate 93"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220390", "text": "Interstate 94\n\nInterstate 94 is an Interstate Highway in the United States. It goes from Billings, Montana east to Port Huron, Michigan at the Canada border. The route is long.\n", "id": "220390", "title": "Interstate 94"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220391", "text": "Interstate 96\n\nInterstate 96 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Michigan in the United States. It goes from Muskegon east to Detroit. The route is long.\n", "id": "220391", "title": "Interstate 96"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220392", "text": "2030\n\n2030 (MMXXX) will be a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n", "id": "220392", "title": "2030"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220393", "text": "Interstate 97\n\nInterstate 97 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Maryland in the United States. It goes from Annapolis north to Baltimore. The route is long and is the shortest 2-digit Interstate.\n", "id": "220393", "title": "Interstate 97"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220394", "text": "Norman Jay Coleman\n\nNorman Jay Coleman (May 16, 1827 – November 3, 1911) was a newspaper publisher and the first United States Secretary of Agriculture. \n\nColeman was born in Richfield Springs, New York in 1827 to Hamilton and Nancy Coleman. He received a law degree from the University of Louisville Law School in 1849. Coleman then moved to Missouri and went into farming. In 1855 he started the \"Valley Farmer\" newspaper. As a result of the newspaper, Coleman became an important person in the Missouri farming community, which helped him become a member of the Missouri House of Representatives. Coleman’s newspaper stopped due to the American Civil War, but three years after the war he started the \"Coleman’s Rural World\". His career in politics continued when he was made the Lieutenant Governor of Missouri from 1875 to 1877. During that time he worked to make United States Department of Agriculture a cabinet-level department. Under the administration of President Grover Cleveland, he served as its first Secretary. His position as Secretary of Agriculture was never confirmed by the United States Senate.\n\nHe was a member of the Freemasons.\n\n\n", "id": "220394", "title": "Norman Jay Coleman"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220395", "text": "Interstate 99\n\nInterstate 99 is an Interstate Highway in the state of Pennsylvania in the United States. It goes from Bedford north to Bellefontaine. The route is long.\n", "id": "220395", "title": "Interstate 99"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220397", "text": "2031\n\n2031 (MMXXXI) will be a common year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n\n\n\nIn The Hunger Games, The first Annual Hunger Games begins in this year\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "220397", "title": "2031"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220398", "text": "Interstate 238\n\nInterstate 238 is an Interstate Highway in the state of California in the United States. It goes from Interstate 580 in Castro Valley east to Interstate 880 in San Leandro. The route is long. The route is not like a 3-digit route as there is no Interstate 38. It is called Interstate 238 as it was a part of California State Route 238 and no numbers with \"80\" at the end were able to be used.\n", "id": "220398", "title": "Interstate 238"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220399", "text": "2032\n\n2032 (MMXXXII) will be a leap year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "220399", "title": "2032"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220400", "text": "Interstate Highways in Alaska\n\nThere are Interstate Highways in Alaska that get money from the government. Even though these are Interstate Highways, most of them are not grade separated, which means drivers must use a specially made group of ramps to get to the road. They mostly are along roads with two lanes. Also, there are no signs for these Interstate Highways. \n\nThe four Interstate Highways in Alaska are:\n", "id": "220400", "title": "Interstate Highways in Alaska"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220402", "text": "Jeremiah McLain Rusk\n\nJeremiah McLain Rusk (June 17, 1830 – November 21, 1893) was the 15th Governor of the U.S. state of Wisconsin from 1882 to 1889.\n\nRusk was born in Malta, Ohio. He was a member of the Republican Party. He began his life as a farmer, then became an innkeeper and finally became a banker before the Civil War. During the war, he received a brevet appointment as a general and saw action with the 25th Wisconsin Volunteer Infantry.\n\nAfter the Civil War, he became a congressman in the United States House of Representatives. There, he became chairman of the Committee on Invalid Pensions. He was elected Governor of Wisconsin as a Republican in 1882. His most noted act during his governorship was when he sent the National Guard into Milwaukee to keep the peace during the May Day Labor Strikes of 1886. This led to the Bay View Tragedy, in which a number of workers were killed; Governor Rusk took most of the blame.\n\nIn 1889 he resigned his post as governor and accepted the new cabinet position of Secretary of Agriculture in the Benjamin Harrison administration. He lived, died and was buried in Viroqua, Wisconsin.\n\n", "id": "220402", "title": "Jeremiah McLain Rusk"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220406", "text": "Na'vi language\n\nThe Na'vi language is a language that was made for the Na'vi in the 2009 film \"Avatar\". It is an invented language. This means a person created it; no one grows up speaking it. Only one person can really speak the Na'vi language. One website has been known to help people learn Na'vi.\n\nThe first Na'vi words were made by the professor Paul Frommer in 2005 for the film. When they released the movie in 2009, the vocabulary increased to a thousand words despite the understanding of its grammar was limited to the language's creator.\n\nMany people are learning the language. Websites like \"Learn Na'vi\" have many learning materials and a forum to learn with others.\n\n", "id": "220406", "title": "Na'vi language"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220411", "text": "Interstate 76\n\nInterstate 76 can refer to:\n", "id": "220411", "title": "Interstate 76"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220412", "text": "Interstate 84\n\nInterstate 84 can refer to:\n", "id": "220412", "title": "Interstate 84"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220413", "text": "Interstate 86\n\nInterstate 86 can refer to:\n", "id": "220413", "title": "Interstate 86"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220414", "text": "Interstate 88\n\nInterstate 88 can refer to:\n", "id": "220414", "title": "Interstate 88"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220416", "text": "Kentrosaurus\n\nKentrosaurus was a stegosaurian, whose intelligence was low among the dinosaurs. \"Kentrosaurus\" fossils have been found in Tendaguru in Tanzania, Africa.\n\n\n\"Kentrosaurus\" was an herbivorous ornithischian (bird-hipped) dinosaur, belonging to the group Thyreophora and the Stegosauria (four-legged, bulky-bodied dinosaurs with a double row of plates and or spikes, which included \"Stegosaurus\", \"Tuojiangosaurus\" and others).\n", "id": "220416", "title": "Kentrosaurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220422", "text": "Delgadillo's Snow Cap Drive-In\n\nDelgadillo's Snow Cap Drive-In is a historic small restaurant and roadside attraction along a part of what used to be Route 66 in Seligman, Arizona USA. The drive-in was built in 1953 by a man who lived in the town, Juan Delgadillo (May 17, 1916 - June 2, 2004). Delgadillo had very little money, so he built the restaurant mostly from scrap lumber he found at the nearby Santa Fe Railroad yard.\n\nDelgadillo thought of a fun way to bring attention to his new restaurant. He cut the roof off of a 1936 Chevrolet, put paint, horns and emblems from other cars all over it and placed an artificial Christmas tree in the rear of the car.\n\nDelgadillo's had a sense of humor which could be seen both on his car and on his menu. That menu still has such choices as a \"cheeseburger with cheese\" and \"dead chicken.\" \"Juan's Garden\" at the rear of the restaurant is just as funny. That is the place Mr. Delgadillo kept his collection of old cars and other strange things. Even the building itself has strange and funny things written on it. Hand-painted signs in the parking area warn drivers that they are \"parking at their own risk.\" A neon sign in the window tells people, \"Sorry, we're open.\" The door which leads inside has two knobs, one on the right and one on the left. The knob on the right is fake; the one on the left opens the door. Delgadillo would have fun with his customers by asking, for example, if they wanted cheese on their cheeseburgers.\n\nWhile learning about the history of Route 66 for the 2006 Disney/Pixar motion picture \"Cars\", John Lasseter met Delgadillo's brother, Seligman barber and Route 66 expert, Angel Delgadillo, who told him how traffic through the town almost completely went away on the day that nearby Interstate 40 opened.\n\nSince Delgadillo's death in 2004, the Snow Cap has been run by his sons John-Michael and Robert. They both work the counter and play with the customers like their father did. The walls around the counter area itself are covered with business cards from all over the world.\n\nAuthor Michael Wallis covers the history of the Snow Cap in his book, \"Route 66: The Mother Road.\" \n", "id": "220422", "title": "Delgadillo's Snow Cap Drive-In"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220431", "text": "Simão Sabrosa\n\nSimão Sabrosa (born 31 October 1979) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Atlético Madrid and Portugal national team.\n\n225||135||16||7||25||3||266||145\n109||17||9||0||30||5||148||22\n234||152||25||7||55||8||414||167\n\n!Total||77||21\n", "id": "220431", "title": "Simão Sabrosa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220432", "text": "Marco Donadel\n\nMarco Donadel (born 21 April 1983) is an Italian football player. He plays for Fiorentina.\n\n188||3\n188||3\n", "id": "220432", "title": "Marco Donadel"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220433", "text": "Henri Camara\n\nHenri Camara (born 10 May 1977) is a Senegalese football player. He has played for Senegal national team.\n\n43||20||||||||||||||43||20\n59||22||||||||||||||59||22\n125||31||4||3||9||3||colspan=\"2\"|-||138||37\n18||8||1||0||1||0||6||0||26||8\n245||81||5||3||10||3||6||0||266||87\n\n!Total||89||28\n", "id": "220433", "title": "Henri Camara"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220434", "text": "Julio dos Santos\n\nJulio dos Santos (born 7 May 1983) is a Paraguayan football player. He has played for Paraguay national team.\n\n91||28\n5||0\n0||0\n21||1\n117||29\n\n!Total||23||3\n", "id": "220434", "title": "Julio dos Santos"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220435", "text": "Kim Sung-Kil\n\nKim Sung-Kil (born 8 July 1983) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player.\n\n0||0||0||0||0||0||0||0\n20||0||||||||||20||0\n20||0||0||0||0||0||20||0\n", "id": "220435", "title": "Kim Sung-Kil"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220437", "text": "Ziad Tlemcani\n\nZiad Tlemcani (born 10 May 1963) is a former Tunisian football player. He has played for Tunisia national team.\n\n119||45\n119||45\n\n!Total||20||4\n", "id": "220437", "title": "Ziad Tlemcani"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220438", "text": "Hideyuki Ujiie\n\nHideyuki Ujiie (born 23 February 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tonan Maebashi.\n\n230||17||14||1||5||0||249||18\n230||17||14||1||5||0||249||18\n", "id": "220438", "title": "Hideyuki Ujiie"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220439", "text": "Matthew Bingley\n\nMatthew Bingley (born 16 August 1971) is a former Australian football player. He has played for Australia national team.\n\n322||36\n35||2\n357||38\n\n!Total||14||5\n", "id": "220439", "title": "Matthew Bingley"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220442", "text": "Brachiopod\n\nBrachiopods are a phylum of small marine shellfish, sometimes called lampshells. They are not common today, but in the Palaeozoic they were one of the most common types. They lived near the shore (littoral zone), but now they have been pushed into deeper water by competition from bivalve molluscs.\n\nAt their peak in the Palaeozoic era the brachiopods occupied a number of marine ecological niches. They were among the most abundant filter-feeders and reef-builders. Many sat on the sea floor, but some swam in the jet-propulsion style of scallops. Brachiopod fossils have been useful indicators of climate changes during the Paleozoic era. \n\nThey do look rather like bivalves, but their internal organisation is quite different. Their mostly calcium carbonate shells or \"valves\" have upper and lower surfaces, unlike the left and right arrangement in bivalve molluscs. Brachiopod valves are hinged at the rear end. The front can be opened for feeding or closed for protection. \n\nTwo major groups are recognized, articulate and inarticulate. Articulate brachiopods have toothed hinges and simple opening and closing muscles, while inarticulate brachiopods have untoothed hinges and a more complex system of muscles used to fit the two halves together. In a typical brachiopod a stalk-like pedicle goes from an opening in one of the valves (the pedicle valve). It attaches the animal to the seabed but clear of silt that would obstruct the opening.\n\nBrachiopods have a huge fossil record going back to the Cambrian. They were much reduced by the two main extinction events, the P/Tr and K/T. Bivalve molluscs took over their inshore habitats in the Mesozoic, and since then the brachiopods have been confined to deeper water, except for a handful of species. There are about 100 to 350 species living; the fossil species number 12,000.\n\n\"Lingula\", one of the oldest genera of brachiopods, has survived from the earliest Ordovician to the present day. The various species look very similar, and the genus is a good example of a living fossil.\n\nBrachiopod classification is being debated by invertebrate palaeontologists.\n", "id": "220442", "title": "Brachiopod"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220463", "text": "Deaths in 2010\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "220463", "title": "Deaths in 2010"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220467", "text": "Casey Johnson\n\nCasey Johnson (September 24, 1979 - January 4, 2010) was an American socialite and heiress to the Johnson & Johnson empire. Her father was businessman Woody Johnson. She was openly bisexual and was engaged to model and reality television star Tila Tequila in December 2009. Johnson was found dead in her Los Angeles home on January 4, 2010. She died of diabetes.\n", "id": "220467", "title": "Casey Johnson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220470", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 2010\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 2010 was a singing competition that took place in Oslo, Norway, after Alexander Rybak won the Eurovision Song Contest 2009 with the song called \"Fairytale\".\n", "id": "220470", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 2010"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220480", "text": "Parides\n\nParides is a genus of swallowtail butterflies in the family Papilionidae. They are found in North America, Central America, and South America.\n\n\n", "id": "220480", "title": "Parides"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220487", "text": "Medical school\n\nA medical school is a place where medical students learn medicine. When they graduate from a medical school, they become a physician or a doctor. Medical Schools grant Doctor of Medicine (MD), Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine (DO) and sometimes Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) Degrees. Students take classes in human biology and disease then take a license exam to practice medicine.\n\nA medical student or student doctor is a person who has been accepted to a medical school and is studying to become a doctor. Medical students are typically required to learn about basic health, science, technology and the clinical practice of medicine. During basic technology study, most medical students learn about human anatomy, physiology, diseases, and different drugs.\n\nMedical students are generally considered to be at the earliest stage of the medical career pathway. In some locations they are required to be registered with a government body.\n\nMedical students typically engage in both basic science and practical clinical coursework during their tenure in medical school. Course structure and length vary greatly among countries.\n", "id": "220487", "title": "Medical school"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220489", "text": "Doom 3\n\nDoom 3 (or \"Doom III\" in roman numerals), is a sequel to the first-person shooter game \"Doom 2\". It was created by iD Software, and came out in 2004. It was the first to not be based on the same game engine as \"Doom\" and \"Doom 2\", and had 40 levels. Doom 3 has a very dark environment, and the player carries a flashlight to light the way, although the flashlight can't be used at the same time as the weapons, except in the BFG Edition.\n\n\n\nDoom 3 on the Doom Wiki\n", "id": "220489", "title": "Doom 3"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220499", "text": "Star Trek: The Original Series\n\nStar Trek is a science fiction television series created by Gene Roddenberry that aired from September 8, 1966 to September 2, 1969. Though the original series was just called \"Star Trek\", it got the nickname Star Trek: The Original Series (\"ST:TOS\" or \"TOS\") to make it different from the spinoffs, and from the \"Star Trek\" universe or franchise they take up. Set in the 23rd century, the first \"Star Trek\" follows the adventures of the starship USS Enterprise (NCC-1701) and its crew, led by Captain James T. Kirk (William Shatner), his First Officer Mr. Spock (Leonard Nimoy), and his Chief Medical Officer Leonard McCoy (DeForest Kelley). William Shatner's voice-over introduction during each episode's opening credits stated the starship's purpose:\n\nWhen \"Star Trek\" first came on NBC in 1966, it was not successful to begin; ratings were low and advertising revenue was very little. Even at the end of the first season of \"Star Trek\", there were already calls in the network to cancel the series due to its low Nielsen ratings. Bay Area \"Creature Features\" host John Stanley in his memoir \"I Was a TV Horror Host\" relates how Desilu head Lucille Ball at that time \"single handedly\" kept \"Star Trek\" from being removed from the NBC-TV lineup.\"\n\nClose to the end of the second season the show was still in danger of being canceled. Its fans succeeded in giving it a third season; but NBC moved the show to the \"Friday night death slot\" at 10 PM. \"Star Trek\" was finally canceled at the end of the third season, making 79 episodes in total. However, this was enough for the show to be stripped in syndication, allowing it to become very popular and gather a large cult following during the 1970s. After the success of the program, five additional television series and eleven movies, including the newest movie \"Star Trek\", which came out in May 2009. \"Guinness World Records\" lists the original \"Star Trek\" as having more spin-offs than any other television show in history.\n\n", "id": "220499", "title": "Star Trek: The Original Series"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220509", "text": "Star Trek: The Animated Series\n\nStar Trek is an animated American science fiction television series created by Gene Roddenberry that is based on and contiunes the story of the original series. The animated series was aired under the name Star Trek, but it has become more known under this longer name (or abbreviated as \"ST: TAS\" or \"TAS\") to make it different from the original live action \".\" The success of the original live action series and fan pressure for a \"Star Trek\" revival led to \"The Animated Series\" from 1973-1974, as the source of new adventures of the \"Enterprise\" crew, the next being the live-action feature movie 1979's \"\". \"TAS\" was the first \"Star Trek\" series to win an Emmy Award.\n\n\n", "id": "220509", "title": "Star Trek: The Animated Series"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220510", "text": "Star Trek: Enterprise\n\nEnterprise (retitled Star Trek: Enterprise at the start of its third season) is a science fiction television program created by Brannon Braga and Rick Berman. It is set in the fictional \"Star Trek\" universe created by Gene Roddenberry in the 1960s. It aired from 2001 to 2005. The series follows the adventures of humanity's first \"Warp\" 5 starship, the \"Enterprise\", ten years before the United Federation of Planets shown in previous \"Star Trek\" series. \n\n", "id": "220510", "title": "Star Trek: Enterprise"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220515", "text": "Popularity\n\nPopularity is the state of being well-liked or well-known. Popularity figures are an important part of many people's personal value systems, and forms a critical part of success in fields such as Management, politics, and the Entertainment Industry, among others.\n\nMany different varieties of popularity exist, and many ways in which to gain it. General popularity usually involves respect in two ways: a popular person is respected by groups of people and will take that respect. This reinforces the idea that the person deserves the popularity. Likewise, amicability (friendliness) is an important part of popularity, as a person who does not like others is unlikely to be liked by others. This inverse nature of interpersonal popularity is often overlooked by people (particularly the young) who are attempting to become popular: being loud may be successful in gaining attention, but is unlikely to provide mutual respect.\n", "id": "220515", "title": "Popularity"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220516", "text": "Prime mover (locomotive)\n\nIn engineering, a prime mover is an engine that converts fuel to useful work. In locomotives, the prime mover is thus the source of power for its propulsion. The term is generally used when discussing about any locomotive powered by an internal combustion engine.\n", "id": "220516", "title": "Prime mover (locomotive)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220520", "text": "Argument from design\n\nThe argument from design is an argument for the existence of God or a creator. According to the argument, the appearance of design in nature is evidence for the existence of God. The argument is teleological, because it assumes a purpose. The word \"teleological\" comes from the Ancient Greek \"telos\", which means \"end\" or \"purpose\".\n\nTeleology assumes there is purpose or direction in the works and processes of nature. Immanuel Kant called this argument the physico–theological proof.\n\nMost of the classic forms of this argument are linked to monotheism. Simply talking about a \"designer\", gives the following, simple formulation.\n\nA concise and whimsical teleological argument was offered by G. K. Chesterton in 1908: \"So one elephant having a trunk was odd; but all elephants having trunks looked like a plot.\"\n\nSocrates (c. 469-399 B.C.) He argued that the adaptation of human parts to one another, such as the eyelids protecting the eyeballs, could not have been due to chance and was a sign of wise planning in the universe.\n\nPlato (c. 427–c. 347 B.C.) posited a \"demiurge\" of supreme wisdom and intelligence as the creator of the cosmos in his work \"Timaeus\". For him, the \"demiurge\" lacked the supernatural ability to create \"ex nihilo\" or out of nothing. The demiurge was able only to organize the \"ananke\" (αναγκη). The ananke was the only other co-existent element or presence in Plato's cosmogony. Plato's teleological perspective is also built upon the analysis of \"a priori\" order and structure in the world that he had already presented in \"The Republic\".\n\nAristotle (c. 384–322 B.C.) also developed the idea of a creator of the cosmos, often referred to as the \"Prime Mover\" in his work \"Metaphysics\". Aristotle's views have very strong aspects of a teleological argument, specifically that of a prime mover, who (so to speak) looks ahead in setting the cosmos into motion. Indeed, Aristotle argued that all nature reflects inherent purposiveness and direction.\n\nCicero (c. 106–c. 43 B.C.) also made one of the earliest known teleological arguments. In \"de Natura Deorum (On the Nature of the Gods)\" Cicero stated, \"The divine power is to be found in a principle of reason that pervades the whole of nature\". He was writing from the cultural background of the Roman religion. In Roman mythology the creator goddess, Gaia was borrowed from Greek mythology. The Romans called her Tellus or Terra.\n\nAugustine of Hippo (A.D. 354–430) presented a classic teleological perspective in his work \"City of God\". He describes the \"city of man\" and essentially posits that God's plan is to replace the city of man with the city of God (at some as-yet-unknown point in the future). Whether this is to happen gradually or suddenly is not made clear in Augustine's work. He did not, however, make a formal argument for the existence of God; rather, God's existence is already presumed and Augustine is giving a proposed view of God's teleology. Augustine's perspective follows from and is built upon the \"neo-Platonic\" views of his era, which in turn have their original roots in Plato's cosmogony.\n\nThe idea is that one can infer the existence of intelligent design by looking at an object. The teleological argument says that because life is complex, it must have been designed. It is argued that this is non-sequitur logic. Life or objects are described as \"orderly\" or \"ordered\", which shows that an intelligent designer has ordered them. However, in real life, there are examples of systems that are non-random or ordered simply because it is following natural physical processes, for example diamonds or snowflakes.\n\nThe design claim is often challenged as an argument from ignorance, since it is often unexplained or unsupported, or explained by unscientific conjecture. Supporters of design assume that natural objects and man-made objects have similar properties, therefore both must be designed. However, different objects can have similar properties for different reasons, such as stars and light bulbs. Proponents must therefore demonstrate that \"only\" design can cause orderly systems or the argument is invalid.\n\nA designed organism would, on the face of it, be in contradiction to evolutionary theory. Most biologists support the idea of evolution, by means of natural selection. They therefore reject the first premise, arguing that evolution is not only an alternative explanation for the complexity of life but a better explanation with more supporting evidence. Living organisms obey the same physical laws as inanimate objects. A range of chemical reactions could take place, forming other chemicals with complex properties and ways of interacting. Over very long periods of time self-replicating structures could arise and later form DNA. This has in fact been demonstrated artificially via the Avida program, which can construct complex programs without being given any design (similar programs have had similar results with building machines). Biologists therefore commonly view the design argument as an unimpressive argument for the existence of a god.\n\nAnother argument states that even if the argument from design proved the existence of a powerful intelligent designer, it would not prove that the designer is God. Voltaire observed in his \"Traité de métaphysique\":\n\n... from this sole argument I cannot conclude anything further than that it is probable that an intelligent and superior being has skillfully prepared and fashioned the matter. I cannot conclude from that alone that this being has made matter out of nothing and that he is infinite in every sense.\n\nDavid Hume pointed out that the argument does not necessarily lead to the existence of one God. In his Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion, the character Philo argued (p. 108), amidst other counterarguments to the teleological argument, \"why may not several deities combine in contriving and framing the world?\"\n\nCritics such as Richard Dawkins often argue that the teleological argument would in turn apply to the proposed designer, arguing any designer must be at least as complex and purposeful as the designed object (in Dawkins' words, \"The Ultimate 747\", a reference to Hoyle's analogy to a windstorm sweeping through a junkyard and constructing a 747). This, they say, would create the absurdity of an infinite series of designers.\n\nWhilst the Universe can at first seem be purposeful and ordered, it has been asserted that upon closer inspection its true function becomes questionable. Some scientists such as Richard Dawkins, a high-profile advocate of atheism, reject the claim that the Universe serves any actual function, claiming that the Universe merely 'mimics' purpose. For example, predators appear perfectly 'designed' to catch their prey, whilst their prey seem equally well 'designed' to evade them. Likewise, apparent inconsistencies in the design of organisms have been brought to attention by critics of the teleological argument. Some use such arguments to point towards natural selection as a 'blind' biological designer, as opposed to God.\n\nProponents of teleology have argued against this objection on various grounds. For example, William A. Dembski says that such arguments are based upon presumptions about what a designer would or would not do, and so constitute a \"theological rather than scientific claim.\" \"Not knowing the designer,\" he continues, they \"are in no position to say whether the designer proposed a faulty compromise among those [design] objectives.\" (Dembski 2004, pp. 58–9)\n\nAdditionally, the claim of an apparent inconsistency between the \"design\" of predators and prey ignores the balance of the ecosystem. Dembski counters, \"In criticizing design, [critics] tend to place premium on functionalities of individual organisms and see design as optimal to the degree that those individual functionalities are maximized. But higher-order designs of entire ecosystems might require lower-order designs of individual organisms.\" (Dembski, 2004, p. 61)\n\nGeorge H. Smith, in his book \"Atheism: The Case Against God\", points out what he considers to be a fatal flaw in the argument from design \nConsider the idea that nature itself is the product of design. How could this be demonstrated? Nature, as we have seen, provides the basis of comparison by which we distinguish between designed objects and natural objects. We are able to infer the presence of design only to the extent that the characteristics of an object differ from natural characteristics. Therefore, to claim that nature as a whole was designed is to destroy the basis by which we differentiate between artifacts and natural objects. Evidences of design are those characteristics \"not\" found in nature, so it is impossible to produce evidence of design \"within\" the context of nature itself. Only if we first step beyond nature, and establish the existence of a supernatural designer, can we conclude that nature is the result of conscious planning. (p. 268)\n\n\n", "id": "220520", "title": "Argument from design"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220522", "text": "Fictional universe in Avatar\n\nThe 2009 American science fiction movie \"Avatar\", directed by James Cameron, is set on the fictional world of Pandora, which is a tropical Earth-like moon of the fictional planet Polyphemus, in the Alpha Centauri system.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "220522", "title": "Fictional universe in Avatar"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220532", "text": "Na'vi\n\nThe Na'vi are a fictional indigenous species that live on the fictional world of Pandora in the movie Avatar. They look like humans, having pairs of eyes, ears, arms, and legs, as well as a nose, a mouth, and expressions that are similar to humans. The Na'vi differ by having blue skin, pointed ears, huge eyes, and tails. They are also taller but also have more narrow proportions in body frame. The Na'vi were meant to be more alien in their looks. Director James Cameron said that when one of the main characters, \"Neytiri\", was first drawn, she had fins, gills, and cat-like features. The species was redesigned to look more like humans, so audiences could relate to them better. Cameron said that \"Avatar\" was more \"science fantasy\" than true science fiction, and said that he would explain in the novel why the Na'vi look like humans.\n\nAccording to \"Entertainment Weekly\", \"The Na'vi can commune with animals on their planet by literally plugging their ponytails into the creatures' nerve systems. To become a warrior, a Na'vi must tame and ride a creature known as Ikran.\" The Na'vi also use this neural bonding system to mate with a \"life partner\" - a bond that, when made, cannot be broken in the Na'vi's lifetime.\n\nThe Na'vi language, a constructed language, was made for the movie to be spoken by the actors when they played Na'vi characters. The Na'vi language was made by linguistics professor Paul Former of the University of Southern California. Frommer designed the language so it could be spoken by human actors. It combines syntax and grammar from real languages. The professor made up over 1,000 words for the Na'vi language and taught the actors who played Na'vi characters to speak it for the movie.\n\n", "id": "220532", "title": "Na'vi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220534", "text": "Renault F1\n\nRenault F1 is a Formula One racing team. It was once owned by the Renault company. In December of 2010, Renault sold their remaining part of the Formula One team. Renault has a long history in F1. Ferenc Szisz won the first French Grand Prix at the wheel of a Renault. Since then Renault has competed in Formula One as an engine supplier and as a builder from the late 1970s to the present day, with many breaks. Renault introduced the turbo engine to Formula One when they debuted their first car, the Renault RS01 at Silverstone in 1977. Although the Renault team won races and competed for world titles, it was as a supplier of engines to the Benetton and Williams teams in the 1990s that Renault first tasted world championship success. Renault Engines powered drivers such as Nigel Mansall, Damon Hill, Jacque Villeneuve and Michael Schumacer to the Drivers World Championship. \nRenault returned to the job of being a builder in 2001 by taking over the Benetton team, which was renamed Renault in 2002. Their first championship as a builder was achieved in 2005; the same year that they won their first drivers' championship with former test driver Fernando Alonso. They repeated their success in the following year. \n\nThe teams lowest point so far was in late 2009. at the end of the 2008 season the team saw a brief return to the podium spots, with Fernando Alonso winning 2 of the last 4 races. However, Nelson Piquet Jnr, Who had drove for Renualt throughout the 2008 season (but was sacked from the team) told the media that the team had made him cheat in order to help Alonso win.\n\nAt the 2008 Singapore Grand Prix (the first ever Grand Prix to be held at night) Nelson Piquet Jnr lost control of his car at the outside of Turn 17, sliding across the road and smashing into a wall, throwing lots of debris across the road, meaning the Safety Car had to be called out to lead the cars through the track slowly to protect the Marshalls cleaning the road. This closed the gaps between the cars, meaning they were now racing very close together. This allowed Fernando Alonso, who was in 15th place to pass the slower less experienced drivers around him. Alonso went on to win race. \nAfter Renualt fired Piquet Jnr for his poor driving in 2009, He told the FIA (the organisation that run the Formula 1 World Championship) That Flavio Briatore, the Boss of the Renualt F1 Team (Who had been the boss for 20 years, and had cheated previously) had told him over the radio to crash the car deliberately, in order to bring the safety car out and give Alonso a better chance. Alonso was not aware of this at the time, or before to the crash.\n\nFollowing a meeting of the FIA Super Council in Paris, Team Principle Flavio Briatore and Chief Engineer Pat Symmonds were found guilty. Both had to leave the team and Flavio was banned from Formula 1 for life (That band has now been lifted). In connection with the event, Renault F1's main Sponsor ING Insurance (as shown in the photo above) Also left the team\n\nOn 8 December, 2010, Renault announced that they had sold their remaining ownership shares in the team to Genii Capital, a private investment group. Those shares will be purchased by Lotus Cars, which is owned by Proton. Proton owns Lotus Cars. The team will be named Lotus Renault GP for 2011. They will continue to use Renault as the chassis name. The cars will use a black and gold livery (paint scheme). It will be similar to the historic \"John Player Special\" sponsorship that Lotus had in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe team has raced as a French team since Renault took over Benetton in 2002. In January 2011, it was announced that they will race under a British licence in . This is the first time since that there has not been a French team in Formula One.\n", "id": "220534", "title": "Renault F1"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220548", "text": "Coconut milk\n\nCoconut milk is a sweet, milky white cooking base which comes from the meat of a mature coconut. The color and rich taste of the milk can be attributed to the high oil content and sugars. It should not be confused with coconut water (coconut juice), which is the natural liquid found inside a coconut. It is used in many tropical recipes. There are two kinds of coconut milk: thick and thin.\n", "id": "220548", "title": "Coconut milk"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220553", "text": "Kricogonia\n\nKricogonia is a genus of butterflies. \"Kricogonia\" belongs in the family Pieridae. The species are found in North America, Central America, and South America.\n\n\n", "id": "220553", "title": "Kricogonia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220555", "text": "The Othersiders\n\nThe Othersiders was an American, television series on Cartoon Network. It is about a group of five teenage friends who like the paranormal and explore haunted places to find any paranormal happenings. The series started on June 17, 2009, as part of the Cartoon Network programming block \"CN Real\". The second season of \"The Othersiders\" began October 7, which was said on the Twitter pages of Othersiders KC, Jackie, Zack, and Riley, and on \"The Othersiders\"'s official website. Instead of just seeing the episode on Wednesdays, the show will start being seen on different days of the week in a pattern starting with \"Linda Vista Hospital\". The final episodes will be played Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays during the month of October 2009 with the season finale, \"Alcatraz\", started October 30, 2009.\n", "id": "220555", "title": "The Othersiders"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220556", "text": "Elias Howe\n\nElias Howe (July 9, 1819 – October 3, 1867) was an American inventor. He invented the sewing machine. Elias Howe was the inventor of the first American-patented sewing machine. \n", "id": "220556", "title": "Elias Howe"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220557", "text": "Mojito\n\nA mojito is a kind of cocktail. It is from Cuba originally. It is made of rum, sugar, lime juice, sparkling water and mint. It usually contains about 10 percent alcohol. The combination of sweetness, sour citrus and mint flavour is intended to complement the rum. It is popular drink in hot weather.\n\nWhen making a mojito, lime juice is added to sugar and mint leaves. The mixture is then gently mashed together. The mint leaves should only be bruised to release the essential oils; they should not be torn apart. Then rum is added. The mixture is then stirred to dissolve the sugar. Finally, ice cubes and sparkling water are added in the top of the drink. Mint leaves and lime wedges are used to garnish the glass.\n\nThere are several stories about how the mojito was invented. One story says that it is similar to a 19th-century drink called \"El Draque\", after Francis Drake. This drink is said to have been given to the crew of Drake's ships when they came to Cuba in the 16th century. Many in the crew were suffering from dysentery and scurvy. They were told that the Native Americans had remedies for various tropical illnesses. They went ashore on Cuba and were given ingredients for a remedy: a kind of rum, lime, sugarcane syrup and mint. While this drink was not called a mojito at this time, it is the same combination of these ingredients.\n", "id": "220557", "title": "Mojito"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220559", "text": "Star Trek: Phase II\n\nStar Trek: Phase II was a planned television series based on the characters of Gene Roddenberry's \"\", which had run from 1966 to 1969. It was set to air in early 1978 on a proposed Paramount Television Service (a precursor/forerunner to UPN). The series was to follow the adventures of the \"Enterprise\" crew on a second five-year mission, and be a continuation of the \"Star Trek\" franchise.\n\n", "id": "220559", "title": "Star Trek: Phase II"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220562", "text": "Pickled cucumber\n\nA pickled cucumber, most often simply called a pickle in the United States and Canada, is a cucumber that has been processed in a brine or vinegar solution and left to ferment for a period of time. Pickling is also used for many other things, such as onions, cabbage, and herring. One common type of pickle is the dill pickle. It is commonly used as a topping on meat products such as hamburgers, but can also be eaten on its own. \n", "id": "220562", "title": "Pickled cucumber"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220564", "text": "Cape May Bird Observatory\n\nThe Cape May Bird Observatory was founded in 1975 in Cape May, New Jersey, United States. The purpose of the Cape May Bird Observatory is to do research, encourage conservation, and create educational and recreational birding activities. It has two separate centers: the Center for Research and Education in Cape May Court House in the central part of Cape May County, and the Northwood Center in Cape May Point. The current director is Pete Dunne, a well-known birding author. \n\nCape May is a great place for bird migration. Every spring and fall, thousands of migrating birds pass through the area. Birders from all over the world have come to Cape May to see the migrations. \n\nThe Cape May area is home to many birding authors, including Dunne, Kerlinger, Pat and Clay Sutton, Michael O'Brien, Richard Crossley and Kevin Karlson.\n\nThe most notable former Cape May birder is author David Allen Sibley. Sibley wrote the field guide \"The Sibley Guide to Birds\". He wrote it while he was living and birding in Cape May Point.\n\n", "id": "220564", "title": "Cape May Bird Observatory"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220567", "text": "John Willock Noble\n\nJohn Willock Noble (October 26, 1831 – March 22, 1912) was an American lawyer and brevet general in the Civil War. He was the Secretary of the Interior between 1889 and 1893.\n\nNoble was born in Lancaster, Ohio and went to Miami University. In 1851, he graduated from Yale University with honors. After being in the Civil War, he became U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri. He was the Secretary of the Interior during the entire time that Benjamin Harrison was President of the United States. He later practiced law in St. Louis and died there in 1912.\n", "id": "220567", "title": "John Willock Noble"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220570", "text": "New Castle County, Delaware\n\nNew Castle County is a county in the state of Delaware in the United States. The county is in the north part of the state. The county seat is Wilmington. New Castle County had 500,265 people in 2000.\n", "id": "220570", "title": "New Castle County, Delaware"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220571", "text": "Kent County, Delaware\n\nKent County is a county in the state of Delaware in the United States. The county is in the middle part of the state. The county seat is Dover. Kent County had 126,697 people in 2000.\n", "id": "220571", "title": "Kent County, Delaware"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220572", "text": "Sussex County, Delaware\n\nSussex County is a county in the state of Delaware in the United States. The county is in the south part of the state. The county seat is Georgetown. Sussex County had 156,638 people in 2000.\n", "id": "220572", "title": "Sussex County, Delaware"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220585", "text": "Edmontosaurus\n\nEdmontosaurus was a large, plant-eating, duck-billed dinosaur from the latest Cretaceous stage. It had short arms, a long, pointed tail, three-toed, hoofed feet, and mitten-like hands. Its head was flat and sloping with a wide, toothless beak, cheek pouches, and hundreds of closely-packed cheek teeth that ground up its food. It is the same animal as \"Anatotitan\". There are two species, and the animal has been called by several other names in the past.\n\n\"Edmontosaurus\" was named from a fossil found in the Horseshoe Canyon Formation, in Alberta, Canada. Many \"Edmontosaurus\" fossils have been found, in Alberta, and Alaska, Wyoming, Montana and New Jersey in the USA. Two mummified \"Edmontosaurus\" fossils were found in Wyoming.\n\nThe distribution of its fossils suggests that it preferred coasts and coastal plains. It could move on two legs and on four. Because it is known from several bone beds, \"Edmontosaurus\" is thought to have lived in groups. It may have been migratory.\n\nMost of the back and tail was lined by bony tendons arranged in a lattice along the neural spines of the vertebrae. This made the back and part of the tail \"ramrod\" straight. The ossified tendons strengthened the vertebral column against gravitational stress. It was a large animal with a horizontal vertebral column otherwise supported mostly by the hind legs and hips.\n\nAs a hadrosaurid, \"Edmontosaurus\" was a large terrestrial herbivore. Its teeth were continually replaced and packed into dental batteries that contained hundreds of teeth, only a relative handful of which were in use at any time. It used its broad beak to cut loose food, perhaps by cropping, or by closing the jaws in a clamshell-like manner over twigs and branches and then stripping off the more nutritious leaves and shoots. \"Edmontosaurus\" and most other ornithischians probably had cheek-like structures, muscular or non-muscular. The function of the cheeks was to keep food in the mouth. The animal's feeding range would have been from ground level to about above.\n", "id": "220585", "title": "Edmontosaurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220586", "text": "Ornitholestes\n\nOrnitholestes was a carnivorous dinosaur which lived in the Upper Jurassic period about 156145 million years ago. It was about 2 metres long (6.6 feet), half of which was its long tail. Only one specimen of it has ever been found.\n\nIt is one of a group of small, fast-running dinosaurs which are classified as early Coelurosaurs. It is known from a partial skeleton found near Medicine Bow, Wyoming, in 1900. It was described by paleontologist Henry F. Osborn in 1903.\n\n\"Ornitholestes\" was a bipedal runner. Its small head suggests it ate small mammals, lizards, frogs, and hatchling dinosaurs. It could grasp prey with both hands. It is likely that all coelurosaurs had feathers.\n\n\"Coelurus\", \"Compsognathus\", \"Tanycolagreus\".\n", "id": "220586", "title": "Ornitholestes"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220602", "text": "Ryuzo Hiraki\n\n!Total||30||1\n\n", "id": "220602", "title": "Ryuzo Hiraki"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220603", "text": "Óscar Miñambres\n\nÓscar Miñambres (born 1 January 1981) is a former Spanish football player.\n\n23||0\n23||0\n", "id": "220603", "title": "Óscar Miñambres"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220604", "text": "Leandro Costa Miranda Moraes\n\nLeandro Costa Miranda Moraes (born 18 July 1983) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Vitória.\n\n28||5\n11||2\n64||13\n103||20\n", "id": "220604", "title": "Leandro Costa Miranda Moraes"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220606", "text": "Kota Fukatsu\n\nKota Fukatsu (born 10 August 1984) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Machida Zelvia.\n\n128||8||5||1||3||0||136||9\n128||8||5||1||3||0||136||9\n", "id": "220606", "title": "Kota Fukatsu"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220607", "text": "Serhiy Skachenko\n\nSerhiy Skachenko (born 18 November 1972) is a former Ukrainian football player. He has played for Ukraine national team.\n\n46||6\n73||10\n56||18\n68||25\n32||4\n11||4\n11||2\n20||4\n317||73\n\n!Total||17||3\n", "id": "220607", "title": "Serhiy Skachenko"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220608", "text": "Shota Suzuki\n\nShota Suzuki (born 3 July 1984) is a former Japanese football player.\n\n58||3||1||0||1||0||60||3\n58||3||1||0||1||0||60||3\n", "id": "220608", "title": "Shota Suzuki"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220609", "text": "Tatsuya Suzuki\n\nTatsuya Suzuki (born 1 August 1982) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo.\n\n106||12||8||4||16||1||130||17\n106||12||8||4||16||1||130||17\n\n", "id": "220609", "title": "Tatsuya Suzuki"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220610", "text": "Kenta Shimizu\n\nKenta Shimizu (born 18 September 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Montedio Yamagata.\n\n177||0||6||0||6||0||189||0\n177||0||6||0||6||0||189||0\n", "id": "220610", "title": "Kenta Shimizu"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220611", "text": "Igor Cvitanović\n\nIgor Cvitanović (born 1 November 1970) is a former Croatian football player. He has played for Croatia national team.\n\n10||5\n216||130\n29||3\n5||1\n260||139\n\n!Total||29||4\n", "id": "220611", "title": "Igor Cvitanović"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220623", "text": "Liverwort\n\nThe liverworts are a group of simple plants. Molecular evidence based on mitochondrial DNA suggests strongly that they are the stem group from which mosses, hornworts and all higher plants evolved.\n\nLiverworts are usually regarded as Bryophytes, together with mosses and hornworts. Recent taxonomy places them separately in a division called the Marchantiophyta, or even the Antheroceratophyta. However, since the classification is not yet settled, we keep the old terms for convenience.\n\nLiverworts, as the illustration shows, are small plants with flattened bodies, or with flattened stems bearing overlapping scales.\n\nLiverworts have a gametophyte-dominant life cycle. This is a type of alternation of generations similar to that of mosses. Cells in a typical liverwort plant are haploid for most of its life cycle. Their stalked sporophytes (diploid) are very short-lived, withering away soon after releasing the spores.\n", "id": "220623", "title": "Liverwort"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220624", "text": "Planck length\n\nThe Planck length is a very small unit of length. It is calculated from three physical constants: the speed of light, the Planck constant, and the gravitational constant. \n\nIt is about 1.6 x 10 m or about 10 times the size of a proton. It is one of the Planck units, defined by Max Planck. It is an important length for quantum gravity because it may be the size of the smallest black holes.\n", "id": "220624", "title": "Planck length"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220629", "text": "Seed dispersal\n\nSeed dispersal is the way seeds get from the parent plant to a new place. \"Dispersal\" means to spread or scatter. The basic idea is as follows. Plants, obviously, cannot move after they have put down roots. It follows that it is an evolutionary advantage to get their seeds away from the parent plant. If the seeds take root nearby they will compete with each other and the parent plant. Also, a species is more likely to survive when its members are widely spread. This is because local disasters still leave plants in other places.\n\nFrom the first land plants in the Silurian period for 300 million years to the Lower Cretaceous, virtually all transport of spores and seeds was done by mechanical means. In fact, for most types of plants both fertilisation and dispersal was done by wind. If not wind, then water was the medium. A great change took place with the appearance of flowering plants in the Cretaceous.\n\nThe story of flowers and insects is one of the best examples of co-evolution. The gut contents, wing structures, and mouthparts of fossilized beetles and flies suggest that they acted as early pollinators. The association between beetles and angiosperms during the Lower Cretaceous period led to parallel radiations of angiosperms and insects in the Upper Cretaceous. The evolution of nectaries in Upper Cretaceous flowers signals the beginning of the mutualism between hymenopterans and angiosperms.\n\nWhat is true of fertilisation is also true of dispersal. Spores, the tiny products of lower plants, are almost always dispersed by wind. So are many seeds. Some seeds, and their later development, fruits, are obviously adaptations to a world full of animals. If they are dispersed by being eaten, it is advantageous for them to be nutritious and good to eat. So spores, seeds and fruits may get dispersed mechanicallly or by animals:\n\nAn important detail for a wind-dispersed seed is that it is very light. It must be able to float easily on wind or else it will drop straight to the ground. There are \"parachutes\" on top of some seeds, like milkweed and dandelion seeds. Some seeds are very small and light, almost like dust. Orchid seeds and poppy seeds are like that. Poppy seeds are inside a little capsule that has little openings around the top. On a windy day, the poppy fruit capsule will sway from side to side, shaking out the tiny seeds out the windows like a salt shaker. \n\nAnother kind of fruit that can be wind-dispersed is the maple tree fruit. The maple tree has little \"schizocarps\", which are two-sided winged fruits. They are also called \"samaras.\" Their lightness and \"wings\" help them stay in the air until they have reached a new place with lots of soil. Elm and birch trees also have samaras.\n\nSome fruits can fling (throw) their seeds away when they are ripe. This is a type of rapid plant movement, where the fruit is thrown from a little \"machine\".\n\nPea pods often use mechanical dispersal. When the seeds are ready, the pod dries up. When the pod dries, the inside of the pod dries faster than the outside. This makes the pod twist inside, suddenly splitting open violently, rolling into a little spiral. When this roll happens, it makes the seeds fly out of the pod in all directions.\n\n\"Impatiens\" called \"touch-me-nots\" or \"jewel weeds\" is a large genus of flowering plants. When the seeds are ripe and ready, the dried fruit becomes a trigger. When an animal or human touches the plant, it bursts open and sprays the seeds everywhere. If the ground is wet, the seeds can germinate right where they land; they can also stick to the creature that made the capsule burst open. This can help them be carried off to a new place.\n\nViolets and gorses use mechanical dispersal, too. When the seeds are ready, it opens with a loud \"POP!\" sound. Another fruit called the squirting cucumber uses mechanical dispersal, too. There are hundreds of other fruits that use mechanical dispersal.\n\nThese plants usually grow near the water. Once the seed falls into the water, it may be carried for a long distance before it finds a place to grow.\n\nA good example is the water lily. Water lilies' beautiful flowers create a fruit that floats in the water for some time and then sinks to the bottom to take root on the floor of a pond. The seeds of the water lily can be dispersed and germinated in the water.\n\nThe palm tree, which grows near the water, also disperses its seeds by water. Powerful ocean currents that connect continents move the palm tree's seeds, called coconuts, to their new home.\n\nThe mangrove tree lives right in the water. Their seeds fall from the tree and grow roots as soon as they touch soil. If there is a lot of water, they can be carried far away.\n\nMost nuts, like acorns, walnuts, and pecans are dispersed by \"both\" water and animals. The main way that they are dispersed by water is during flood times, or if their plants grow near a river or stream. Many nut trees grow near places that flood quite often. Though water is important for nut trees, it's not as important as it is for other plants, because many trees have roots that can grow a long way from the tree to find good soil and water.\n\nThere are several ways seeds get dispersed by animals. One example are the burrs that stick to your socks and pants when you walk through grassy fields. The parent plant makes the spiky little burrs from the flower. These burrs are either thrown off the plant and onto the ground, or they stay on the plant until a passing animal (or person) gets the burr in its fur, feathers, or socks. Then the burr is carried to a new place, where animals usually try to get it off themselves. Animals , scratch, or peck at the burrs to get them off. The burr is then dropped on the ground, away from the parent plant. Many grass seeds have surfaces which catch onto passing creatures. For instance spear grass has spiky tips that can get stuck in passing animals or blown by a strong wind to a new place.\n\nAnother way for animals to help in seed dispersal is for the animals to actually plant the seeds themselves. Animals like mice, squirrels, and jay birds collect fruits and nuts during the spring and summer, and they store them for the coming winter. Many times, they save up these fruits and nuts by burying them in the ground - often more than they need. When they come to take their fruits and nuts away, they leave a few buried. The ones that are left buried become plants.\n\nSeeds are often dispersed in droppings (poo). Animals swallow fruit (including seeds): they digest the soft fruit, but the seeds come out in their droppings. In some rainforests, almost 90% of tree species are dispersed by animals. Animals like bats for instance, the short-tailed fruit bat in South America can scatter up to 60,000 seeds in one night.\n\n", "id": "220629", "title": "Seed dispersal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220630", "text": "Ventforet Kofu\n\nThe club was founded in 1965.\n\n\n\n", "id": "220630", "title": "Ventforet Kofu"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220631", "text": "Vissel Kobe\n\nThe club was founded in 1966.\n\n\nThe team has some notable achievements.\n\nIn 2012, Keijiro Ogawa made three goals in one game against Jubilo Iwata.\n\n\n", "id": "220631", "title": "Vissel Kobe"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220632", "text": "Hiroshi Ninomiya\n\n!Total||12||9\n\n", "id": "220632", "title": "Hiroshi Ninomiya"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220634", "text": "Ryoji Ujihara\n\nRyoji Ujihara (born 10 May 1981) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Thespa Kusatsu.\n\n174||31||10||3||4||0||188||34\n174||31||10||3||4||0||188||34\n", "id": "220634", "title": "Ryoji Ujihara"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220635", "text": "Jorge Andrade\n\nJorge Andrade (born 9 April 1978) is a Portuguese football player. He has played for Portugal national team.\n\n105||6\n123||2\n4||0\n232||8\n\n!Total||51||3\n", "id": "220635", "title": "Jorge Andrade"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220636", "text": "Lee Woon-Jae\n\nLee Woon-Jae (born 26 April 1973) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He ws a member of the Korean national team.\n\n255||0||10||0||74||0||11||0||350||0\n255||0||10||0||74||0||11||0||350||0\n\nLee has played in over 100 international matches.\n!Total||125||0\n", "id": "220636", "title": "Lee Woon-Jae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220637", "text": "Hiroaki Matsuyama\n\n70||4||1||0||8||0||79||4\n70||4||1||0||8||0||79||4\n", "id": "220637", "title": "Hiroaki Matsuyama"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220638", "text": "Yoshiaki Maruyama\n\nYoshiaki Maruyama (born 12 October 1974) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Chonburi.\n\n192||2||10||0||11||1||213||3\n12||1||0||0||colspan=\"2\"|-||12||1\n204||3||10||0||11||1||225||4\n", "id": "220638", "title": "Yoshiaki Maruyama"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220639", "text": "Benoît Pedretti\n\nBenoît Pedretti (born 12 November 1980) is a French football player. He plays for Auxerre.\n\n291||13\n291||13\n\n!Total||22||0\n", "id": "220639", "title": "Benoît Pedretti"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220640", "text": "Santiago Solari\n\nSantiago Solari (born 7 October 1976) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Atlante.\n\n101||17\n175||17\n39||4\n0||0\n315||38\n\n!Total||11||0\n", "id": "220640", "title": "Santiago Solari"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220641", "text": "Shigemitsu Sudo\n\n117||0\n117||0\n\n!Total||13||0\n\n", "id": "220641", "title": "Shigemitsu Sudo"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220643", "text": "Diego Milito\n\nDiego Milito (born 12 June 1979) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Internazionale Milano and Argentina national team.\n\n137||34||||||8||2||145||36\n90||57||4||3||colspan=\"2\"|-||94||60\n108||53||15||8||2||0||125||61\n335||144||19||11||10||2||364||157\n\n!Total||20||4\n", "id": "220643", "title": "Diego Milito"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220645", "text": "Kazuhiro Mori\n\nKazuhiro Mori (born 17 April 1981) is a former Japanese football player.\n\n50||1||4||0||8||1||62||2\n50||1||4||0||8||1||62||2\n", "id": "220645", "title": "Kazuhiro Mori"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220646", "text": "Katsuhiro Kusaki\n\n76||11||3||1||12||2||91||14\n76||11||3||1||12||2||91||14\n\n!Total||2||0\n\n", "id": "220646", "title": "Katsuhiro Kusaki"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220648", "text": "Stephen Laybutt\n\nStephen Laybutt (born 3 September 1977) is a former Australian football player. He plays for Australia national team.\n\n114||8\n10||0\n3||0\n6||0\n100||2\n233||10\n\n!Total||15||1\n", "id": "220648", "title": "Stephen Laybutt"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220649", "text": "Robert da Silva Almeida\n\nRobert da Silva Almeida (born 3 April 1971) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.\n\n172||19\n17||5\n189||24\n!Total||3||0\n", "id": "220649", "title": "Robert da Silva Almeida"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220652", "text": "Atlanta FC\n\nAtlanta FC is an American football team based in Sandy Springs, Georgia, United States. Started in 2007, the team plays in National Premier Soccer League (NPSL), a national amateur league at the fourth tier of the American Soccer Pyramid, in the Southeast Division.\n\nThe team plays its home games at Hoskyn Stadium on the grounds of Riverwood High School, where they have played since 2008. The team's colors are orange, white, and sky blue.\n", "id": "220652", "title": "Atlanta FC"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220655", "text": "Route availability\n\nRoute Availability (RA) is the system by which the permanent way and supporting works (bridges, embankments, etc.) of the National Rail network of Great Britain are graded. All routes are given an RA number between 1 and 10.\n\nRolling stock is also given an RA (again between 1 and 10) and the RA of a train is the highest RA of any of the supporting elements. The RA is mainly about the axle load of the vehicle, although axle spacing is also taken into thought. In practice it is the locomotive which decides where trains may operate, although many high capacity four axle wagons have high RAs when fully loaded. (When considering the operation of trains the loading gauge must also be considered.)\n", "id": "220655", "title": "Route availability"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220659", "text": "Blackberry pie\n\nBlackberry pie is pie made of blackberry filling, most of the time in the form of either blackberry jam, blackberries themselves, or sometimes both. Blackberries must be stewed or soaked in water before baking to stop burning. Fresh frozen blackberries sweetened with brown sugar nestled under a double crust and served with ice cream is usually eaten in summer, and many people enjoy it as a summer favorite.\n\nWhen Abraham Lincoln was made President of the United States in 1861, blackberry pie was served at the inauguration lunch.\n\n", "id": "220659", "title": "Blackberry pie"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220661", "text": "Butterfly gardening\n\nButterfly gardening is a growing school of gardening, that is aimed at creating an environment that attracts butterflies, as well as some moths. Butterfly gardening is often done to invite those butterflies and moths to lay eggs as well. In addition to the planting of flowers that feed butterflies, other methods of attracting them are building \"butterfly houses\", with sand for puddling, water to drink, and food items, like rotten fruit.\n", "id": "220661", "title": "Butterfly gardening"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220663", "text": "Tachinidae\n\nTachinidae is a family of flies. There are over 8,200 species in this family. There are about 1,300 in North America. These flies are commonly known as tachina flies or tachinids.\n\nThey are found in almost all habitats all over the world. There are Neotropical, Nearctic, Afrotropical, Palaearctic, Oriental, Australasian and Oceanic species.\n", "id": "220663", "title": "Tachinidae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220664", "text": "Pork pie\n\nPork pies are a type of meat pie and are a common British food. They are made of chopped pork and pork jelly sealed in a hot water crust pastry, and are most of the time eaten cold. They are most of the time eaten at picnics with ketchup or mustard.\n\n", "id": "220664", "title": "Pork pie"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220665", "text": "Cream pie\n\nA cream pie is a type of pie filled with a rich custard or pudding that is made from milk, cream, flour, and eggs. It can come in many forms, like vanilla, lemon, lime, banana, coconut, and chocolate. A common feature of all cream pies is the whipped cream topping. The pudding-like filling is related to the French crème patissière which is a main ingredient of many French cakes and tarts.\n", "id": "220665", "title": "Cream pie"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220666", "text": "Red-vented bulbul\n\nThe red-vented bulbul (Pycnonotus cafer) is a species of bird. It belongs in the family Pycnonotidae. \n\nThe bird is found in tropical southern Asia from India and Sri Lanka east to Burma and southwestern China. It has been introduced to many Pacific islands including Fiji, Samoa, Tonga, and Hawaii. It has also been introduced in parts of Dubai, the United Arab Emirates and New Zealand. It is included among the world's worst introduced species.\n", "id": "220666", "title": "Red-vented bulbul"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220671", "text": "Ionian Sea\n\nThe Ionian Sea is an arm of the Mediterranean Sea, south of the Adriatic Sea. It is bordered by southern Italy like Calabria, Sicily and the Salento peninsula to the west, and by southwestern Albania, like Saranda and Himara, and a large number of Greek islands, like Corfu, Zante, Kephalonia, Ithaka, and Lefkas to the east. The islands are most of the time referred to as the Ionian Islands, and other islands like the Strophades, Sphagia, Schiza, Sapientza and Kythira. The sea is one of the most seismic areas in the world.\n\nThere are ferry routes between Patras, Greece and Brindisi and Ancona, Italy, that cross the east and north of the Ionian Sea, and from Piraeus westward.\n", "id": "220671", "title": "Ionian Sea"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220673", "text": "Red-whiskered bulbul\n\nThe red-whiskered bulbul (\"Pycnonotus jocosus\") is a species of bird. It belongs in the family Pycnonotidae. It is found mainly in tropical Asia. It has been introduced in many tropical areas of the world. It feeds on fruits, nectar and small insects. Their calls are a loud \"kick-pettigrew\" . They are very common in many hill forests and urban gardens. They have a red patch behind the eye, which juveniles lack. They are often found perching on top of trees and bushes. They now even thrive in cities in different parts of the world. \n", "id": "220673", "title": "Red-whiskered bulbul"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220677", "text": "Little Rock Nine\n\nThe Little Rock Nine was a group of African-American students who were in the Little Rock Central High School, Arkansas in 1957. This started the Little Rock Crisis, in which the students were stopped from entering the racially segregated school by Arkansas Governor Orval Faubus. They attended after President Eisenhower sent the United States Army to let them in. This is thought to be one of the most important events in the African-American Civil Rights Movement.\n", "id": "220677", "title": "Little Rock Nine"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220685", "text": "Hornwort\n\nHornworts are a group of bryophytes, or non-vascular plants. The name refers to the elongated horn-like structure, which is the sporophyte. The flattened, green plant body of a hornwort is the gametophyte plant.\n\nLike all bryophytes, the hornworts have alternation of generations in which the green plant body is a haploid gametophyte, and the sporophyte is the diploid fruiting body.\n\nHornworts may be found world-wide, growing where it is damp or humid. Some species grow in large numbers as tiny weeds in the soil of gardens and cultivated fields. Large tropical species of \"Dendroceros\" may be found growing on tree bark.\n\nThe taxonomy of bryophytes is being debated. Some think the hornworts should be placed in a separate division, the Anthocerotophyta.\n\n", "id": "220685", "title": "Hornwort"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220687", "text": "Pacific Grove, California\n\nPacific Grove is a coastal town in Monterey County, California, US. The total population was 15,522 in the 2000 census. Pacific Grove is located between Point Pinos and Monterey. Its elevation is 151 feet (46 m). \n\nPacific Grove is known for its Victorian homes, Asilomar State Beach, its artistic legacy and the annual migration of the Monarch butterflies. The city has more Victorian houses per person than anywhere else in United States. Some of them have been turned into bed and breakfast inns. \n\nPoint Pinos Lighthouse, the oldest continuously working lighthouse on the West Coast, is in Pacific Grove.\n\nJohn Denver died near Pacific Grove.\n", "id": "220687", "title": "Pacific Grove, California"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220693", "text": "Black-headed grosbeak\n\nThe black-headed grosbeak (\"Pheucticus melanocephalus\") is a species of bird. It belongs in the family Cardinalidae. It is a medium sized, seed-eating bird. It is 18-19 cm long. It weights 35-49 g.\n\nThe black-headed grosbeak is a migratory bird. It has nesting grounds from southwestern British Columbia, through the western half of the United States, into central Mexico. It occurs as an introduced species further south in Central America.\n\n", "id": "220693", "title": "Black-headed grosbeak"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220701", "text": "Airbus A310\n\nThe Airbus A310 is a jet airliner made by Airbus. It was announced in July 1978 and it was the second aircraft to be made by Airbus. The A310 is a shorter version of the Airbus A300, which was Airbus' first plane.\n\nWhen the Airbus A300 was being designed, Airbus studied many different sizes of plane. The Airbus A300B was chosen, and it was one of the smaller designs. When the A300B prototypes were made, many airlines asked for a plane which could hold more passengers. Airbus then changed to the A300B2 version, which was the first type to be made. Airbus noticed that many airlines also wanted smaller planes. Some airlines did not have enough passengers to use the A300. \n\nAirbus wanted to keep the cost of designing a smaller A300 as low as possible. Airbus decided that the plane would hold 220 passengers, which was what many airlines wanted. \n\nAnother problem was the rate of inflation. In the UK during 1979–1980, it was 35%. This would mean that the designing costs would be very high, and so would the price of the plane. \n\nFrom late 1977, BAe began designing the wing for the A310 at Hatfield. \n\nAt the April 1978 Hanover Air Show, Airbus brought a model A310. Its wing area was , was a bit larger than what Airbus designed. If two classes were used in the plane, 195 passengers could travel in the aircraft. If the plane is all-economy, 245 passengers could fit inside. \n\nOn 15 March, Swissair bought the A310. It said that it would buy 10 and have 10 options, to replace its McDonnell Douglas DC-9 series. Lufthansa bought ten planes for $240 million. Air France and Iberia soon did the same. On 1 April 1979 Lufthansa increased its order to 25 orders and 25 options. Two days later, KLM bought 10 planes and had 10 options, which cost ₤238 million. Other airlines which bought the A310 during 1979 included Martinair, Sabena and Air Afrique.\n\nAt first, Airbus planned two versions of the A310: the A310-100 and the A310-200. The A310-100 could fly for with 200 passengers, and the -200 could carry the same number of passengers for longer.\n\nAirlines kept buying the A310, and the A310-200 flew for the first time on 3 April 1982. Orders and options had been made for 181 aircraft, which was a much better start than the A300. Airbus realised that the −200 aircraft was much more popular than the -100 aircraft. In 1979, Airbus decided to stop making the A310-100.\n\nNo airlines bought the A310 during the late 1990s because Airbus had made the Airbus A330. Airbus stopped making the A300 and the A310 in July 2007. The freighter version of the A310 was replaced by the A330-200F.\n\nThe A310 was replaced by the A330-200. Between 1983 and 1998, 255 A310s were made. \n\nThe A300 and A310 helped Airbus compete with Boeing.\n\nThe A310 was a changed version of the A300; the aircraft was first called the A300B10. The main differences between the A300 and the A310 are:\n\nThe aircraft has a glass cockpit. The A300-600 has the same flight deck as the A310. The flight deck can hold up to two more seats.\n\nTwo versions of the A310 were made: the −200 and the −300. The first version which was designed was the −200.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe militaries of these countries use the A310.\n\nWhen Airbus stopped making A310s, 255 had been ordered and delivered.\n\nThe A310 has had ten hull-loss accidents. 825 people have died in these accidents. A hull-loss accident is when a plane is damaged so much that it cannot be repaired, or if the plane is completely destroyed.\n\nThe A310 has also had ten hijackings. Five people have died in these.\n\n\n", "id": "220701", "title": "Airbus A310"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220710", "text": "Alitalia\n\nAlitalia is the biggest airline in Italy.\n\nThe \"first\" Alitalia was founded on September 16, 1946. Its first flight was on May 5, 1947. In 1960, Alitalia started flying jet aircraft. In 1995, Alitalia tried to merge with KLM, but it failed. 1998 was the first profitable year for Alitalia. In 2001, Alitalia joined SkyTeam. The airline lost more than €3.7 billion since 1999 until 2008. On January 12, 2009, the \"first\" Alitalia shut down. The next day, on January 13, the \"second\" Alitalia began. In June 2014, Etihad Airways bought 49% of Alitalia. On January 1, 2015, a \"third\" Alitalia began. This one is 49% owned by Etihad and 51% owned by Italian shareholders. \n\nAlitalia flies to 102 destinations in 41 countries. 28 of these cities are in Italy. Alitalia's main hub is at Rome Fiumicino Airport. \n\n", "id": "220710", "title": "Alitalia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220714", "text": "Chowder (TV series)\n\nChowder is an American animated television series that started on Cartoon Network on November 2, 2007. The show was created by C.H. Greenblatt, a former storyboard artist on \"SpongeBob SquarePants\" and \"The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy\". The title character is a young child named Chowder. Chowder is a student to a chef named Mung Daal, who owns a baking company serving the fictional \"Marzipan City\". The show has animation with stop motion animation and puppetry.\n\n", "id": "220714", "title": "Chowder (TV series)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220716", "text": "The Secret of NIMH 2: Timmy to the Rescue\n\nThe Secret of NIMH 2: Timmy to the Rescue is a 1998 American direct-to-video animated movie. It is the sequel to \"The Secret of NIMH\" produced by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Animation. It tells the story of a mouse named Timothy Brisby, the youngest son of Jonathan and Mrs. Brisby, who goes to Thorn Valley wanting to become a hero like his father. \n\nThe movie was made without the support of Don Bluth, the animator who created the original movie. \n\nThe movie begins with a prophecy from the first movie, telling how one of Jonathan's and Mrs. Brisby's sons would save Thorn Valley from the \"secret of NIMH.\" Timothy is chosen to go but his older brother Martin believes he should have been chosen. Martin decides to prove his quality, and goes off to find his own adventure. \n\nOne day he comes across a female mouse named Jenny, whose parents were two of the lost six mice who tried to escape NIMH but were thought to have died. \n\nThe Thorn Valley council decides it would be too dangerous to save the six mice, so Jenny and Timmy go alone. They take a hot air balloon, but it is attacked by a hawk and it crashes in the forest.\n\nSeeking help, they visit the Great Owl. They learn that a caterpillar named Cecil has teamed up with Jeremy, the crow from the first movie, to trick people into paying them money. Jeremy and Cecil take the two mice to NIMH where they find that two other mice, Justin and Brutus. They also learn that Dr. Valentine, the head scientist, has made Martin crazy. He planned to use the lab rats and a flock of ravens to take over Thorn Valley. \n\nHe asks Timmy to join him, but he refuses and is locked in a cage as Martin drags Jenny away. Timmy later frees Jenny. Together, they knock out Martin and Timmy tricks Martin's army of ravens and rats to fly in the wrong direction. Timmy and Jenny then leave to find the others only to be attacked by a band of bad cats and rats. \n\nThe building they are in catches fire during the fight. The survivors (Timmy, Jenny, and her parents) flee. Timmy goes back to save Martin. Before he leaves, Jenny tells him she loves him and he tells her the same. Timmy and Martin are able to escape through the lab's skylight, with some help from Jeremy. Jeremy takes the survivors to safety. The mice return to Thorn Valley, Martin returns to normal and Timmy is now a hero. A likeness of him is added to the statue of Jonathan and the people of Thorn Valley cheer. \n\n\n", "id": "220716", "title": "The Secret of NIMH 2: Timmy to the Rescue"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220720", "text": "The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack\n\nThe Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack is an American animated television series made for Cartoon Network that started on June 5, 2008. The show was made by cartoonist Mark \"Thurop\" Van Orman, who has worked as a writer and storyboard artist on \"Camp Lazlo\" and \"The Grim Adventures of Billy & Mandy\". the main point of the marvelous misadventures of flapjack is the main characters (captain knuckles, flapjack & bubbie) trying to find the magical island of candied island. flapjack is an adventurous little boy taking after and learning from captain knuckles,knuckles plays the role of a drunken sailor \n", "id": "220720", "title": "The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220722", "text": "Embraer E-Jets\n\nThe Embraer E-Jets are an aircraft made by Embraer in Brazil.\n\nThe smallest Embraer E-Jets with up to 76 seats.\n\nThe longer version of Embraer 170.\n\nThe Embraer 190 have up to 106 passenger seats.\n\nThe longer version of Embraer 190 and the biggest E-Jet.\n", "id": "220722", "title": "Embraer E-Jets"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220724", "text": "Lefkada\n\nLefkada is a Greek island. It is in the west of Greece in the Ionian Sea. It is the fourth largest island of the Ionian Sea after Kefalonia, Corfu and Zakynthos. Its total area is 303 square meters. Its population is 22,789 residents according to 2001 Greek census. The largest town of Lefkada is Lefkada (city). Its population is 10,875 people.\n\nLefkada is famous for its beautiful beaches. The island is surrounded by many beautiful beaches with azure-green color. The most impressive beaches are Porto Katsiki, Kathisma and Egremnoi. All of these beaches are in the west of the island. According to Guardian newspaper the Porto Katsiki beach is one of the most beautiful beaches in Europe.\n\nEvery year many tourists visit Lefkada. Tourists come from western European countries, most from Italy. The most village on the island is Nidri which is in the east of the island. Opposite Nidri there are many small green islets. Among them is the islet Scorpios which belonged to millionaire Aristotle Onassis.\n\nThe German archaeologist Wilhelm Dörpfeld, believed that Lefkada was the real country of Odysseus. In Classic period, Lefkada was a colony of Corinth. Later it passed under the Roman rule and Byzantine rule. In medieval era many conquerors passed from the island. In the thirteenth century Venice took the island from Byzantium. The Venetians remained in island for many years. The Turks conquered the island for a brief period but the Venetians took the island back and held it until 1797. Then the Napoleon's France took the island and after the island passed in England. In 1864, the English gave Lefkada to Greece, along with the other Ionian islands.\n", "id": "220724", "title": "Lefkada"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220729", "text": "European honey bee\n\nThe European honey bee or western honey bee (\"Apis mellifera\") is the main species of honey bee. The genus \"Apis\" is Latin for \"bee\", and mellifera comes from Greek melli- meaning \"honey\" and ferre \"to bear\". So, the scientific name means \"honey-bearing bee\". In 1758 Carolus Linnaeus named the bees as \"Apis mellifera\". However, he later found out that bees do not bear honey, but they actually bear nectar. Because of this, he tried to change it to \"Apis mellifica\" (\"honey-making bee\") later.\n\nWorkers do a waggle dance in the beehive to tell the others where they have found nectar; Karl von Frisch discovered this.\n\n", "id": "220729", "title": "European honey bee"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220742", "text": "Blue jay\n\nThe blue jay (\"Cyanocitta cristata\") is a passerine bird native to North America. It is adaptable, aggressive and omnivorous.\n\nThe blue jay measures 22–30 cm (9–12 inches) from bill to tail and weighs 70–100 grams (2.47–3.53 oz), with a wingspan of 34–43 cm (13–17 inches). There is a crown of feathers on the top of the head, which may be raised or lowered according to the bird's mood. When excited or aggressive, the crest may be fully raised. When scared, the crest comes outwards, brushlike. When the bird is feeding among other jays or resting, the crest is flattened to the head.\n\nIts plumage is lavender-blue to mid-blue in the crest, back, wings, and tail, and its face is white. The underside is off-white and the neck has a thin stripe with black which extends to the sides of the head. The main wing and tail feathers are deep with black, sky-blue and white. The bill, legs, and eyes are all black. Males and females look nearly the same except that males are a little bit larger.\n\nBlue jays have strong black bills used for cracking open nuts, and acorns and for eating corn, grains and seeds, although they also eat insects such as beetles, grasshoppers, and caterpillars.\n\nBlue jays can make many different sounds, and single sounds may vary a bit. Blue jays can learn to mimic human speech. Blue jays can also copy the callings of local hawks so well that it is sometimes difficult to tell which it is. Their voice is normal of most jays in being varied, but the most commonly thought sound is the \"alarm call\", which is a loud, almost gull-like scream. There is also a high-pitched jayer-jayer call that increases in speed as the bird becomes more excited.This very call can be easily confused with the chick-a-dee's song because of the slow starting chick-ah-dee-ee. Blue Jays will use these calls to band together to mob predators such as hawks and drive them away from the jays' nests.\n\nThe blue jay is a slow flier ( 32–40 km/h (20-25 mi/h) when unprovoked) and an easy prey for hawks and owls, when it flies in open lands. It flies with its body and tail held level, with slow wing beats. It is sometimes assertive toward other birds and may chase birds from bird feeders or other food sources, although this happens much less often than it is blamed for. This can be good to other species as well, as it may chase predatory birds, such as hawks and owls which sometimes feed on jays, and will scream if it sees a predator within its territory. It has also been known to sound an \"alarm call\" when hawks or other dangers are near, and smaller birds often know this call and hide themselves away accordingly. It may also be aggressive towards humans who come close to its nest, and if an owl roosts near the nest during the daytime the blue jay mobs it until it takes a new roost.\n\nIts food is found both on the ground and in trees and has almost all known types of plant and animal sources, like acorns and beech mast, weed seeds, grain, fruits and other berries, peanuts, bread, meat, small invertebrates of many types, scraps in town parks, bird-table food and rarely eggs and nestlings. Blue jays will sometimes catch food, though to what extent is different among individuals.\n\nThe mating season starts in mid-March and reaches into July. Any nice tree or large shrub may be used for nesting, though an evergreen is . The nest is normally made at a height of 3 to 10 meters. This cup-shaped nest is made of twigs, small roots, bark strips, moss, other plant material, cloth, paper, and feathers, sometimes with mud added to the cup.\n\nBlue jays mostly form monogamous pair bonds for life. Both sexes make the nest and take care of the young, though only the female broods them. The male feeds the female while she is brooding the eggs. There are normally 4–5 eggs laid and incubated over 16–18 days. The young leave the nest normally between 17–21 days after hatching.\n\nJays are some of the more smart birds. They will wait and watch for a person to put food down and as soon as the person walks away they will come down from their hiding place and take it. Along with crows, jays will also watch a person planting seed crops and afterwards dig up and eat the seeds. Jays are very territorial birds, and they will chase others from a feeder for an easier meal. The blue jay has a bad as a raider of other birds' nests, taking eggs, chicks, and nests. However, this may not be as widespread as is normally thought.\n\n", "id": "220742", "title": "Blue jay"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220745", "text": "Tonka\n\nTonka is a company that makes children's toys. They are probably best known for their trucks.\n", "id": "220745", "title": "Tonka"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220764", "text": "Ken Masters\n\nKen Masters is a Street Fighter main character. He is a main character in a fictional video game.\n", "id": "220764", "title": "Ken Masters"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220773", "text": "Bart the Genius\n\n\"Bart the Genius\" is the second episode of The Simpsons' first season, which first started on the Fox network on January 14, 1990. It was the first episode written by Jon Vitti. It was also the first ever episode to use the signature title sequence, as well as the first normal episode. The episode has Bart Simpson's experiences of life as a smarty-pants after he cheats on an intelligence test. It is the first episode that uses Bart's catchphrase \"Eat my shorts.\" As the second episode was made, right after the bad animation of \"Some Enchanted Evening,\" the future of the series relied on how the animation turned out on this episode. The animation proved to be more acceptable and production continued.\n\nThe episode starts with the Simpson family playing Scrabble. Bart plays the word \"kwyjibo\", which is not a real word.\n\n", "id": "220773", "title": "Bart the Genius"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220774", "text": "Terrier\n\nA terrier is a dog of any one of many breeds of terrier types. They are named from the Latin word \"terra\" meaning earth. It refers to their love of digging after their prey (small burrowing mammals). Terriers are typically small, very active and fearless dogs. Terrier breeds vary greatly in size from just to over . They are usually categorized by size or function. There are five different groups with each group having several different breeds. Terriers do not usually tolerate other dogs well. They are descended from dogs bred to hunt and kill rodents. Terriers usually have 'wiry' (stiff hairs like wire) coats that need special care. Examples of terriers include Irish Terrier and the Cairn Terrier.\n\n<br>\n", "id": "220774", "title": "Terrier"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220777", "text": "Viswanathan Anand\n\nViswanathan Anand, known as \"Vishy\", (born 11 December 1969) is a former World Chess Champion. He comes from India. Vishy is the oldest player in modern times to become classical World Champion for the first time: he was 37 when he won in 2007.\n\nWhen the world championship was split, Anand played in both versions. In the classical chess versions, sometimes called the \"PCA cycle\", Anand won matches against Oleg Romanishin and Michael Adams without a loss, then avenged his FIDE loss by defeating Gata Kamsky in the Candidates final. In 1995, he played the PCA World Chess Championship 1995 against Kasparov in New York City's World Trade Center. After an opening run of eight draws (a record for the opening of a world championship match), Anand won game nine with a powerful exchange sacrifice, but then lost four of the next five. He lost the match 10½–7½.\n\nAnand held the FIDE World Chess Championship from 2000 to 2002 when the world title was split. This was a knock-out event of a different type from the classical matches. He became the undisputed World Champion in 2007 and defended his title against Vladimir Kramnik in 2008. With this win, he became the first player in chess history to have won the World Championship in three different formats: knockout, tournament, and match. \n\nAnand retained the world title by beating Veselin Topalov 6½–5½ in May 2010. He kept the title again by defeating Boris Gelfand in 2012. This match was won in a four-game rapidplay tiebreaker, after the main match was tied at 6–6.\n\nAnand is one of a small group of players to break the 2800 mark on the FIDE rating list, and in April 2007 at the age of 37, he became world number one for the first time. He was at the top of the world rankings five out of six times, from April 2007 to July 2008, holding the number one ranking for a total of 15 months. In October 2008, he dropped out of the world top three ranking for the first time since July 1996. \n\nIn 2007 he was awarded India's second highest civilian award, the Padma Vibhushan. He is also the first recipient of Rajiv Gandhi Khel Ratna Award in 1991–92, India's highest sporting honour. Though retaining his Indian citizenship, Vishy has been living in Spain for the past decade.\n\nAnand lost the title to Magnus Carlsen in 2013, and also lost the return match in 2014 by 4½ to 6½.\n", "id": "220777", "title": "Viswanathan Anand"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220779", "text": "Rensselaer County, New York\n\nRensselaer County is a county in the U.S. state of New York. As of the 2000 census, 152,538 people lived there. It is named for Kiliaen van Rensselaer, the Dutch person who owned the land in the area. The county seat is Troy.\n\nRensselaer County is in the eastern part of New York. The county's eastern line runs along the New York-Vermont and New York-Massachusetts borders.\n\nThe county has a total area of 665 square miles (1,723 km²). Out of this, 654 square miles (1,694 km²) is land and 11 square miles (30 km²) (1.72%) is water.\n\nThe highest point is Berlin Mountain, which is above sea level. The mountain is in the town of Berlin. The lowest point is sea level at the Hudson River. The Hoosic River, a tributary of the Hudson River, is in the north part of the county.\n\nBefore it was called a county, the American Indians lived in the area. They were called Mohicans. A man from the Netherlands, named Kiliaen van Rensselaer, who sold jewelry, bought the area from the Dutch West Indies Company in 1630. He founded a town and named it after himself, calling it Rensselaerswyck. It was a part of New Netherland.\n\n\n\n", "id": "220779", "title": "Rensselaer County, New York"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220781", "text": "Tractive effort\n\nTractive effort is a synonym of tractive force, used in railway engineering terminology when describing the pulling power of a locomotive.\n", "id": "220781", "title": "Tractive effort"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220788", "text": "Homer's Odyssey\n\n\"Homer's Odyssey\" is the third full length episode of \"The Simpsons\", that first started on the Fox network on January 21, 1990. In this episode, Homer becomes a for people's safety in Springfield, and is made a higher rank in his current job as \"Nuclear Safety Inspector\" for the entire power plant. It was written by Jay Kogen and Wallace Wolodarsky and was the first \"Simpsons\" script to be completed, although it was the third episode produced.\n", "id": "220788", "title": "Homer's Odyssey"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220789", "text": "There's No Disgrace Like Home\n\n\"There's No Disgrace Like Home\" is the fourth episode of The Simpsons' first season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on January 28, 1990. In this episode, Homer becomes ashamed of his family after a bad company picnic and decides to enter them in . The has a hard time trying to solve their problems and eventually gives up and gives their money back. It was an early episode, showing early designs for a few characters. The episode is made off of the comedy of Laurel and Hardy and features cultural references to films such as \"Citizen Kane\" and \"Freaks\" as well as the \"Batman\" television series. People noted that the characters acted differently from the way they would in later seasons.\n\n", "id": "220789", "title": "There's No Disgrace Like Home"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220791", "text": "2035\n\n2035 (MMXXXV) will be a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "220791", "title": "2035"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220793", "text": "2036\n\n2036 (MMXXXVI) will be a leap year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n\n", "id": "220793", "title": "2036"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220794", "text": "2037\n\n2037 (MMXXXVII) will be a common year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "220794", "title": "2037"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220797", "text": "2041\n\n2041 (MMXLI) will be a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n\n", "id": "220797", "title": "2041"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220799", "text": "2043\n\n2043 (MMXLIII) will be a common year starting on Thursday of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n\n", "id": "220799", "title": "2043"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220802", "text": "2046\n\n2046 (MMXLVI) will be a common year starting on Monday of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n", "id": "220802", "title": "2046"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220803", "text": "2047\n\n2047 (MMXLVII) will be a common year starting on Tuesday of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n\n\n", "id": "220803", "title": "2047"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220804", "text": "2048\n\n2048 (MMXLVIII) will be a leap year starting on Wednesday of the Gregorian Calendar.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "220804", "title": "2048"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220807", "text": "Continental Airlines\n\nContinental Airlines was an American airline based and headquartered in downtown Houston, Texas. It was founded in 1937. It was the fourth-largest airline in the US based on revenue passenger miles. Since 1998, Continental's marketing slogan had been \"Work Hard, Fly Right\". Continental Airlines announced on Monday, May 3, 2010, that they were merging with United Airlines. The merger was approved in September 2010, and the parent company changed its name to United Continental Holdings when United completed its acquisition of Continental. The combined airline takes the United Airlines name but uses Continental's globe and livery. There has been negative reaction to the new livery, many of whom were in favor of keeping the iconic \"tulip\" logo, designed by Saul Bass in 1973.\n\nContinental operated flights to destinations throughout the U.S., Canada, Latin America, Europe, and the Asia-Pacific regions. Together with its subsidiaries it had more than 2,423 daily departures, serving 130 domestic and 132 international destinations and had 42,210 employees (as of December 2009). Principal operations were from its three hubs at Newark Liberty International Airport, George Bush Intercontinental Airport, and Cleveland Hopkins International Airport. Continental Micronesia, owned by Continental, operated routes around Micronesia from its hub at Antonio B. Won Pat International Airport in Guam, and connected the Micronesian region with destinations in East Asia, Southeast Asia, Honolulu and Cairns, Australia.\n", "id": "220807", "title": "Continental Airlines"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220810", "text": "Wubi (Ubuntu installer)\n\nWubi (Windows-based Ubuntu Installer) is an official, free software program that installs the Ubuntu operating system on computers that have the Windows operating system.\n\nWubi was born as an independent project and as such versions 7.04 and 7.10 were unofficial releases. Since 8.04 the code has been merged within Ubuntu and since 8.04 alpha 5, Wubi can also be found in the Ubuntu Live CD.\n\nWubi was made to help Windows users who are do not know Linux very well to try it out easily without losing data or other problems. Wubi can also remove Ubuntu from inside Windows.\n\n", "id": "220810", "title": "Wubi (Ubuntu installer)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220815", "text": "Chasmosaurus\n\nChasmosaurus was a rhinoceros-like dinosaur, the order of bird-hipped, herbivorous dinosaurs. It was a member of the suborder Marginocephalia, and the family of large, horned, herding herbivores, the ceratopsians. \"Chasmosaurus\" was named by paleontologist Lawrence Lambe in 1914.\n\nChasmosaurus lived 65 to 100 million years ago and was 5 to 6 metres long with a weight of 3.6 tonnes -- about as much as 2 cars.\n\nThey lived in western North America from Alaska to Mexico.\n", "id": "220815", "title": "Chasmosaurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220819", "text": "Xu Xiao-Fei\n\nXu Xiao-Fei (born 7 March 1982) is a former Chinese football player.\n\n54||9||3||0||57||9\n1||0||0||0||1||0\n55||9||3||0||58||9\n\n", "id": "220819", "title": "Xu Xiao-Fei"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220820", "text": "Nivaldo Lourenço da Silva\n\nNivaldo Lourenço da Silva (born 28 September 1975) is a former Brazilian football player.\n\n75||3||2||0||77||3\n75||3||2||0||77||3\n", "id": "220820", "title": "Nivaldo Lourenço da Silva"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220821", "text": "Choi Jin-Cheul\n\nChoi Jin-Cheul (born 26 March 1971) is a former South Korean football player. He has played for Korea Republic national team.\n\n241||18||9||0||71||10||2||1||323||29\n241||18||9||0||71||10||2||1||323||29\n\n!Total||63||4\n", "id": "220821", "title": "Choi Jin-Cheul"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220822", "text": "Andrés D'Alessandro\n\nAndrés D'Alessandro (born 15 April 1981) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Internacional.\n\n85||21\n61||8\n13||1\n50||5\n33||6\n242||41\n\n!Total||22||3\n", "id": "220822", "title": "Andrés D'Alessandro"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220823", "text": "Albin Pelak\n\nAlbin Pelak (born 9 April 1981) is a Bosnia and Herzegovina football player. He plays for Olimpik Sarajevo.\n\n129||37\n3||1\n6||0\n138||38\n\n!Total||2||0\n", "id": "220823", "title": "Albin Pelak"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220824", "text": "Milan Rapaić\n\nMilan Rapaić (born 16 August 1973) is a former Croatian football player. He has played for Croatia national team.\n\n96||23\n135||24\n51||15\n60||14\n342||76\n\n!Total||49||5\n", "id": "220824", "title": "Milan Rapaić"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220825", "text": "Chumbinho\n\nChumbinho (born 21 September 1986) is a Brazilian football player.\n\n7||0||3||0||1||0||11||0\n7||0||3||0||1||0||11||0\n", "id": "220825", "title": "Chumbinho"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220826", "text": "Naoki Sakai\n\n157||17||12||8||32||3||201||28\n157||17||12||8||32||3||201||28\n\n!Total||1||0\n\n", "id": "220826", "title": "Naoki Sakai"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220827", "text": "Atomu Tanaka\n\n65||3||5||0||14||1||84||4\n65||3||5||0||14||1||84||4\n\n", "id": "220827", "title": "Atomu Tanaka"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220828", "text": "Toshihiro Matsushita\n\nToshihiro Matsushita (born 17 October 1983) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokyo.\n\n135||9||10||1||25||2||170||12\n135||9||10||1||25||2||170||12\n\n", "id": "220828", "title": "Toshihiro Matsushita"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220838", "text": "Mississippian\n\nThe Mississippian is the first geological epoch in the Carboniferous. It began about 359 million years ago (mya), and ended 323 mya.\n\nThe names Mississippian and Pennsylvanian are used in North America, because they suit the strata there. Geologists from elsewhere mostly use simply 'Carboniferous', or they use the official terms for stages, as defined by the International Commission for Stratigraphy. \n\nDuring the Mississippian the sea level was high, and much of North America was invaded by a shallow sea. The strata consist mostly of a sequence of marine limestones.\n", "id": "220838", "title": "Mississippian"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220839", "text": "Pennsylvanian\n\nThe Pennsylvanian is the Upper Carboniferous epoch in the strata of North America. It comes after (above) the Mississippian, and before the Permian. The Pennsylvanian started about 323 million years ago (mya), and ended about 299 mya.\n\nThe \"coal measures\", which give the Carboniferous its name, are the remains of peat formed by dense tropical wetland forests. They were formed in the Pennsylvanian, from about 315–300 million years years ago.\n\nThese forests were on the equator, and the wetlands, which are always low-lying, stretched from North America in the west, through what is now Europe to China in the east, because these continents were all together at the time (Laurussia). The river plain which was the heart of the wetland stretched 5000km from eastern Canada to the Ukraine, and was 700km wide. This would make the Pennsylvanian basin larger than any wetlands on Earth today.\n\nThe characteristic vertebrates of the coal measures were amphibia, and the plants were mostly giant clubmosses such as \"Lepidodendron\".\n\nThe rainforest system collapsed about halfway through the Pennsylvanian, and was replaced by a cooler, drier climate. The wetland forests ended when the land level was raised by the pressure of the Gondwana continent against Laurussia, causing the zone of contact to be raised. The end of the Coal Measures marks the end of the Carboniferous period. China was too far away to be affected, and there the wetland forests continued for another 50 million years, into the early Permian.\n\nAs the climate became drier, egg-laying amniotes (Synapsids and Sauropsids) became more common than amphibia. These are the lines that would lead to reptiles and mammals. These egg-laying land vertebrates probably split from the early amniotes in the Mississippian.\n", "id": "220839", "title": "Pennsylvanian"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220852", "text": "Viceroy (butterfly)\n\nThe Viceroy (\"Limenitis archippus\") is a species of butterfly. It belongs in the family Nymphalidae. It is found in North America.\n\nThe wings are orange. They have black veins and black wing edges. There is a black band across the hind wing (bottom wing). This band can sometimes be faint or missing if the butterfly lives in the southwestern United States. In Florida, the Viceroy is dark reddish brown instead of orange. The wingspan ranges from 6.6 to 7.6 cm (2.6 to 3 in).\n\nThe orange Viceroys mimic the Monarch (\"Danaus plexippus\"). The reddish brown Viceroys mimic the Queen (\"Danaus gilippus\") and the Soldier (\"Danaus eresimus\"). \n\nThe caterpillar feeds on trees in the willow family Salicaceae, including willows (\"Salix\"), and poplars and cottonwoods (\"Populus\"). The caterpillars store the salicylic acid in their bodies, which makes them bitter, and upsets predators' stomachs. As further protection, the caterpillars, as well as their chrysalis stage, resemble bird droppings. \n\nThe Viceroy (\"Limenitis archippus\") is a North American butterfly with a range from the Northwest Territories along the eastern edges of the Cascade Range and Sierra Nevada mountains, southwards into central Mexico.\n\nIts wings have an orange and black pattern, and over most of its range it is a Müllerian mimic with the Monarch butterfly (\"Danaus plexippus\"). What this means is that they are both bitter tasting, and they both use the same pattern of colours where they live in the same territory. Müllerian mimicry is a shared warning advertisement, in this case of foul taste.\n\nAdults fly in the late morning and early afternoon.\n\nThe Viceroy can be found from June to July in northern Canada. It can be found from May to October in southern Canada and the northern United States. It is found all year in southern Florida. In the southwestern United States, it is seen from April to November.\n\nThis butterfly is found in a wide range of wet, open places such as water edges, wet meadows, and freshwater marshes.\n\nThe female lays her eggs singly. They are laid at the tip of the host plant leaf (the host plant is the plant that the caterpillar feeds on). The egg is pale green or pale yellow. It turns gray later. The caterpillar feeds at night. It mimics a bird dropping. It is white, brown, black, and olive green. There are two greenish bumps on the thorax. There are also two spines near the head. The chrysalis also mimics a bird dropping. It is white, brown, and black. There is a large brownish bump on the abdomen. The caterpillar hibernates in a leaf shelter. It lays one set of eggs in northern Canada, and 2-3 more groups in southern Canada and the United States.\n\n", "id": "220852", "title": "Viceroy (butterfly)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220868", "text": "Naxos\n\nNaxos may refer to:\n\n", "id": "220868", "title": "Naxos"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220888", "text": "Trifolium pratense\n\nRed Clover (\"Trifolium pratense\") is a species of plant. It is native to Europe, Africa, and Asia. It has been introduced to North America, Hawaii, and Puerto Rico. It blooms from spring to early fall. It is found in fields, pastures, and near roadsides. Red Clover likes to grow in thick, dry soil.\n\n", "id": "220888", "title": "Trifolium pratense"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220894", "text": "William H. H. Miller\n\nWilliam Henry Harrison Miller (September 6, 1840–May 25, 1917) was an American lawyer and Attorney General of the United States.\n\nBorn in Augusta, New York, Miller from Hamilton College in 1861. He studied law in the office of Chief Justice Morrison Waite, and was admitted to the bar in Peru, Indiana in 1865. Miller practiced in that city for a short time, and was also the county school examiner. For many years, he was an advisor to General Benjamin Harrison. In 1889, President Harrison made Miller Attorney General. He was Attorney General until 1893.\n\nMiller died in 1917 in Indianapolis, Indiana, and is in Crown Hill Cemetery in that city.\n", "id": "220894", "title": "William H. H. Miller"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220907", "text": "Bart the General\n\n\"Bart the General\" is the fifth full length episode of \"The Simpsons\"' first season, which first started on the Fox network on February 4, 1990. In this episode, Bart deals with his troubles with the school bully, Nelson Muntz. Bart chooses to go to war with Nelson using the neighborhood kids as his own army. The episode was written by John Swartzwelder and directed by David Silverman.\n\n", "id": "220907", "title": "Bart the General"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220912", "text": "Moaning Lisa\n\n\"Moaning Lisa\" is the sixth episode of The Simpsons' first season, and first started February 11, 1990. The episode was written by Al Jean and Mike Reiss, and was directed by Wes Archer. Ron Taylor guest stars in the episode as \"Bleeding Gums Murphy\". In this episode, Lisa deals with depression and she try's to it by playing her saxophone. It got good reviews from television judges.\n", "id": "220912", "title": "Moaning Lisa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220913", "text": "Anthozoa\n\nAnthozoa are a class in the phylum Cnidaria. It includes the sea anemones and the corals. It is a monophyletic clade, one of two in the Cnidaria. The other is the Medusozoa.\n\nThe class does not have a medusa larval stage in its development, unlike the rest of the phylum. Like all Cnidaria, their food-catching and defense are done by nematocysts, which are extremely effective stinging cells. Over 6,100 species have been described.\n\nThere are three subclasses:\n\n", "id": "220913", "title": "Anthozoa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220918", "text": "Cnida\n\nThe cnida is the basic term for the stinging apparatus of the phylum Cnidaria. The whole life-style of the phylum is based on this device, which enables the animals to catch their prey. The cnida appears in several forms: the most usual is the nematocyst. \nCnidae are organelle-like capsules with eversible tubules (they shoot the tubule outwards). They are the diagnostic feature of the phylum. All cnidarians possess cnidae; no loss of the feature is known.\n\nThere are three main types of cnidae: nematocysts, ptychocysts, and spirocysts, with many variations. Depending on the species, one or more types may be on the organism.\n\n\nThe cell which produces the cnida is variously called a \"cnidocyte\", \"cnidoblast\", or \"nematocyte\". It is highly specialised for just one function. Each nematocyte cell contains an organelle with a hollow, coiled, thread-like structure. The outside of the cell has a hair-like trigger. When the trigger is touched, the shaft of the cnidocyst fires like a harpoon. It penetrates the prey, and the hollow thread comes with it. This takes no more than a few microseconds. After penetration, the toxic content of the nematocyst is injected into the target. The rapid activity of the injected neurotoxins paralyzes the mobile prey, thus allowing the sessile cnidarian to devour it.\nCertain types of sea slugs, such as the nudibranch aeolids, store nematocysts from digested jellyfish at the tips of their cerata (body projections). It is quite common for predators to store useful plastids from their victims.\n", "id": "220918", "title": "Cnida"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220921", "text": "Goldenrod\n\nGoldenrods are any of the about 150 species of weedy herbs that make up the genus Solidago. Handling the goldenrod many times can make some people have allergies. Because of this, some florists change their jobs. Parts of goldenrods are eaten by humans. They are also eaten by many species of Lepidoptera.\n\n\n", "id": "220921", "title": "Goldenrod"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220930", "text": "The Call of the Simpsons\n\n\"The Call of the Simpsons\" is the seventh episode of the first season of \"The Simpsons\". It was first shown on February 18, 1990. It was written by John Swartzwelder and directed by Wesley Archer. Albert Brooks made his first guest appearance on \"The Simpsons\" in this episode as the voice of Cowboy Bob. In this episode, Homer buys an RV and the Simpsons family set off for a vacation in the wild. By mistake driving it off the edge of a cliff, the family is trapped in the woods. As Homer and Bart try to find a way back to home, Homer gets himself covered in mud and is mistakenly taken for Bigfoot by a naturalist. The news about \"Bigfoot\" spread quickly and Bigfoot hunters start to close in on the woods to capture Homer.\n", "id": "220930", "title": "The Call of the Simpsons"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220933", "text": "Brunswick, New York\n\nBrunswick is a town in Rensselaer County, New York, United States that was first settled in the early 1700s. During its history, it had been part of Albany County, Rensselaerswyck, and Troy, before its in 1807. It is bordered on the west by the city of Troy; on the north by Schaghticoke and Pittstown; on the east by Grafton; and on the south by Poestenkill and North Greenbush. The number of people living there was 11,664 at the 2000 . The story of the town's name is fought: some say it comes from the source of its first people who lived in Germany, Brunswick-Lüneburg, while others say that it honors the \"Duke of Brunswick (George I).\n\nThe town was in the past agricultural, but began experiencing suburban sprawl in the later decades of the 20th century, which continues today. Historically, most of the developments have happened around the town's two major crowded roads: New York Route 7 and New York Route 2, known locally as Hoosick Road and Brunswick Road. Brunswick became a popular place to settle in upon the completion of the local highway system in the Capital District, mostly the fix of Route 7 into a four-lane highway in the 1980s.\n\nThe town has two listings on the National Register of Historic Places, both schoolhouses: Garfield School and the Little Red Schoolhouse. And, it is home to a well-known cemetery, Forest Park Cemetery, right now under the power of the town. It is known by urban legend as being one of the most haunted cemeteries in the United States. A very small part of the historic Oakwood Cemetery, added to the National Register of Historic Places in 1984, and burial place of Samuel Wilson, a possible namesake of Uncle Sam, remains within the northwestern part of the town.\n", "id": "220933", "title": "Brunswick, New York"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220936", "text": "Ferdinand Marcos\n\nFerdinand Emmanuel Edralin Marcos (September 11, 1917 – September 28, 1989) was a Filipino politician and lawyer who served as President (1965-1986) and Prime Minister (1978-1981) of the Republic of the Philippines. He is a polarizing historical figure in both Philippines and the world. Marcos established an authoritarian regime that came under criticism for corruption and for its suppression of democratic processes and dictatorial nature. On the other hand, he achieved accomplishments most notably in infrastructure. \n\nFerdinand Edralin Marcos was born on September 11, 1917, in Sarrat, Ilocos Norte, Philippines. His parents Mariano Marcos and Josefa Edralin, were both teachers from important families. He studied law at the University of the Philippines and later on top the bar examinations for lawyers., during which he was accused of assassinating his father's political rival. He represented himself as his own lawyer and he was later acquitted by the Supreme Court. \n\nDuring World War II, Marcos claimed that he had been the leader of \"Ang Maharlika\", guerrilla force in northern Luzon. After the war, he served as Ilocos Norte Representative (1949-1959) and as Senator of the Philippines (1958-1965). He was also Senate President (1963-1965) and then went on to become the President of the Philippines. As a president, he helped improve the infrastructure of the Philippines. He was also good at international diplomacy. He was probably the best and most intelligent and smartest president of the Philippines and many preferred his autocratic rule with iron fist. However, in other side, he may be the one of the most corrupt leaders such as Suharto or Kim Il-Sung or Kim Jong Il due to atrocities. A few years later, national problems like the insurgency by the communist movement and rebellion arose during his presidency: He declared Martial Law in September 1972 to institute peace and order and discipline. His style of leadership soon became dictatorial. Government greed, government bullying, despotism, nepotism, and violation of human rights abuses were abundant. The nation's masses who went against the government were sent to prison, tortured, raped or killed. People could not express themselves freely unless it was in favor of the Marcos family.\n\nIn 1983, he was accused in the assassination of his main rival and challenger, politician Benigno Aquino, Jr. but until today the killer remain unknown. The death of Benigno Aquino, Jr. caused many events, like a wrongful president vote. People became angry after and kicked him out with the help of the US during the peaceful EDSA revolution in February 1986. \n\nHe and his wife Imelda Marcos were accused to have stolen billions of dollars of government funds and had it secretly sent to bank accounts in the United States, Switzerland, and other countries, as well as into fake companies under his name. However, until today Imelda Marcos was never sent to prison nor found guilty of stealing billions of dollars of government money and she remains free and was even elected in congress representing her home province of Leyte. Her son Ferdinand Marcos was back into politics and became a senator of the Philippines while her daughter Imee Marcos is currently the governor of Ilocos Norte.\n\nDuring the people Power EDSA revolution he was flown to [Hawaii]] by a US plane instead of going to his hometown Paoay, Ilocos Norte. President Marcos died in Hawaii of heart, kidney and lung diseases. He was brought back to the Philippines and his remains still lie in a refrigerated crypt in Batac, Ilocos Norte until today because the current administration refuses to grant the former president a burial at the Libingan ng mga Bayani where other former presidents of the Philippines who died are buried. \n", "id": "220936", "title": "Ferdinand Marcos"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220937", "text": "Charles Foster\n\nCharles William Foster, Jr. (April 12, 1828 – January 9, 1904) was a U.S. Republican politician from Ohio. Foster was the 35th Governor of Ohio, and later the Secretary of the Treasury under Benjamin Harrison.\n\nFoster was born near Tiffin, Ohio, and was raised in Rome. This town would merge in 1854 with the town of Risdon to become Fostoria in honor of Foster's father. He was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1870, serving from 1871 to 1879. In 1878, he failed getting re-elected, but was elected to the post of Governor of Ohio one year later. He served two two-year terms between 1880 and 1884. In 1890, Foster tried returning to the House, but was unsuccessful. In 1891, Benjamin Harrison made him Secretary of the Treasury due to the death of William Windom. Foster served till 1893 in that position.\n", "id": "220937", "title": "Charles Foster"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220946", "text": "Jefferson\n\nJefferson often refers to Thomas Jefferson, the third president of the United States and the principal author of its Declaration of Independence.\n\nJefferson may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "220946", "title": "Jefferson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220954", "text": "Perry Como\n\nPerry Como (May 18, 1912 – May 12, 2001) was an American singer. He was born to Italian parents in Canonsburg, Pennsylvania. He hosted a television show \"The Perry Como Show\" in the 1950s and 1960s. Como gave credit to Bing Crosby for his singing style. The Kennedy Center honored Como in 1987.\n", "id": "220954", "title": "Perry Como"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220956", "text": "This Is Spinal Tap\n\nThis Is Spinal Tap is a 1984 comedy movie. This movie pretends to be a documentary. It pretends to tell the story of a rock band called \"Spinal Tap.\" In the movie, the members of this band are David St. Hubbins, Derek Smalls and Nigel Tufnel. They are played by actors Michael McKean, Harry Shearer, and Christopher Guest.\n\nRob Reiner directed the movie and also acted in it. He pretended to be Marty DiBergi, director of the documentary. \n\n\n", "id": "220956", "title": "This Is Spinal Tap"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220958", "text": "Documentary\n\nA documentary is a creative work of non-fiction. A documentary documents (creates a record of) a true story. A documentary may be a video or audio recording, such as a movie or radio program.\n", "id": "220958", "title": "Documentary"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220965", "text": "Red-tailed hawk\n\nThe red-tailed hawk (\"Buteo jamaicensis\") is sometimes called a chickenhawk, even though it does not normally eat chickens. It is a bird of prey. It breeds throughout most of North America, from western Alaska and northern Canada and as far south as Panama and the West Indies. It weighs from to and its wingspan goes from to .\n\nThe red-tailed hawk is a carnivore and eats shrews and mice. They have keen eyesight to see even the smallest mouse scamper across a field. It can swoop down at least 80mph per hour. It will pick up its prey, dig its talons into its body and kill it and eat. It can swoop down so fast that it can pick up its prey in less than 5 seconds.\n\nBecause they are so common and easily trained, most hawks got for falconry in the United States are red-tails. Falconers may take only 'passage hawks' (which have left the nest, are on their own, but are less than a year old). This is so not to affect the breeding population. Adults, which may be breeding or rearing chicks, may not be taken for falconry purposes and it is illegal to do so. \n\nPassage red-tailed hawks are also preferred by falconers because these younger birds have not yet developed adult behaviors, which would make training much more difficult.\n", "id": "220965", "title": "Red-tailed hawk"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220966", "text": "Hurricane Emily (2005)\n\nHurricane Emily was a very strong hurricane that occurred in the month of July in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Hurricane Emily is the only known category 5 hurricane in the month of July. Emily also broke the record for the strongest hurricane, just days after Hurricane Dennis had done so. Hurricane Emily was also one of four category 5 hurricane in the 2005 Atlantic hurricane season. Hurricane Emily affected many countries, this includes: the countries in the Windward Islands, Jamaica, Honduras, Cayman Islands, Mexico (twice), and Texas a state in the United States. The hurricane caused about $988 million in damage and killed 15 people. Even though all of this happened, the name \"Emily\" was not retired, so it was used again in 2011.\n\nOn July 10, Tropical Depression Six started. Late the next day the depression became a tropical storm, it got the name \"Emily\", making it \"Tropical Storm Emily\". The storm headed west toward the Windward Islands. Tropical Storm Emily slowly and then quickly got stronger. Emily became a hurricane, shortly before striking Grenada on July 14 with winds at 90 mph. After Emily left the island, it got stronger, which caused it to became a category 2, and a category 3 not long later. Over the next day, Hurricane Emily got stronger and weaker. On July 16, Hurricane Emily reached its highest strength, becoming a category 5 for a short moment and getting winds at 160 mph. \n\nAfter this, Emily weakened just a little, keeping it at a strong category 4. Hurricane Emily made landfall in Cozumel and the Yucatan Peninsula on July 18, while still a category 4. The hurricane weakened a lot over the Yucatan Peninsula, going back into the Gulf of Mexico while barely a category 1. It slowly got stronger as it crossed the Gulf of Mexico. The hurricane did not really get any stronger until it was about half way to its next landfall. Hurricane Emily made its final landfall in Tamaulipas, Mexico as a category 3, on July 20. The hurricane died the next day over Mexico. \n\nHurricane Emily caused a lot of damage, nearly $1 billion worth, and about 15 people got killed. Most of this happened in Mexico, because it got struck twice by Emily. Damage in Mexico was near $632 million. While just over $178 million in damage happened in Texas. \nEven though all of this happened, the name Emily did not get retired in the spring of 2006. So, the name Emily was used again in 2011. Emily is the fourth category 5 hurricane not to get its name retired.\n\n\n", "id": "220966", "title": "Hurricane Emily (2005)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220968", "text": "John W. Foster\n\nJohn Watson Foster (March 2, 1836 – November 15, 1917) was an American general, journalist and diplomat.\n\nBorn in Pike County, Indiana, and raised in Evansville, he was a lawyer. During the American Civil War, he was a general officer for the Union. The Civil war ended in 1865. Between 1865 and 1869, Foster worked as a journalist for the \"Evansville Daily Journal\". After that, he was the U.S. Minister to Mexico (1873-1880), Russia (1880-1881) and Spain (1883-1885). He was U.S. Secretary of State under President Benjamin Harrison from 1892-1893. In 1895, he helped the Qing Dynasty in drafting the Treaty of Shimonoseki of 1895. He worked for the Chinese as a legal consultant and commissioner.\n\nHis grandchildren included John Foster Dulles, who also became a U.S. Secretary of State, Allen Welsh Dulles, a Director of Central Intelligence, and Eleanor Lansing Dulles, economist and diplomat. He is also the great-grandfather of the Catholic theologian Cardinal Avery Dulles.\n\n", "id": "220968", "title": "John W. Foster"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220973", "text": "Kurrajong\n\nKurrajong may mean:\n\n", "id": "220973", "title": "Kurrajong"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220975", "text": "Sauropelta\n\nSauropelta was an armoured dinosaur from the Lower Cretaceous. It looked a lot like its more advanced relative \"Ankylosaurus\", but didn't have the bony nodes at the end of its tail. \n\nAnatomically, \"Sauropelta\" is one of the best-understood nodosaurids, with fossilized remains recovered in the U.S. states of Wyoming, Montana, and possibly Utah. It is also the earliest known genus of nodosaurid; most of its remains date to about 115 to 110 million years ago.\n\nIt was a medium-sized nodosaurid, measuring about 5 meters (16.5 ft) long. \"Sauropelta\" had a distinctively long tail which made up about half of its body length. Although its body was smaller than a modern black rhinoceros, \"Sauropelta\" was about the same mass, weighing in at about 1,500 kilograms (3,300 lb). The extra weight was largely due to its extensive armour, including the large spines projecting from its neck.\n\nAs in other ankylosaurs, thick triangular scutes projected above and behind the eyes, as well as below and behind the eyes. More typically for nodosaurids, leaf-shaped teeth lined both upper and lower jaws, used for cutting plant material. The front end of the skull is unknown, but there would have been a keratinous beak.\n", "id": "220975", "title": "Sauropelta"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220976", "text": "Ouranosaurus\n\nOuranosaurus was a sail-backed, plant-eating, iguanodontid dinosaur from the Lower Cretaceous period. It was about 24 feet (7 m) long and may have weighed about 4 tons.\n\nTwo almost complete \"Ouranosaurus\" fossils were found in the southern Sahara Desert, in northeast Niger, in 1966. \"Spinosaurus\", a large, sail-backed meat-eater, was one of its contemporaries in the hot, Cretaceous environment of north Africa. \"Ouranosaurus\" was named by the French paleontologist Phillippe Taquet in 1976. \n", "id": "220976", "title": "Ouranosaurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220980", "text": "Sun Jihai\n\nSun Jihai (born 30 September 1977) is a Chinese football player. He has played for China PR national team.\n\n133||7||||||||||||||133||7\n165||3||10||0||8||0||5||1||188||4\n298||10||10||0||8||0||5||1||321||11\n\n!Total||76||1\n", "id": "220980", "title": "Sun Jihai"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220981", "text": "Johan Micoud\n\nJohan Micoud (born 24 July 1973) is a former French football player. He has played for France national team.\n\n315||54\n47||9\n123||31\n485||94\n\n!Total||19||1\n", "id": "220981", "title": "Johan Micoud"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220982", "text": "Péguy Luyindula\n\nPéguy Luyindula (born 25 May 1979) is a French football player. He plays for Paris Saint-Germain and France national team.\n\n352||93\n10||0\n362||93\n\n!Total||6||1\n", "id": "220982", "title": "Péguy Luyindula"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220983", "text": "Marlon de Souza Lopes\n\nMarlon de Souza Lopes (born 5 September 1976) is a Brazilian football player.\n\n23||12||0||0||23||12\n23||12||0||0||23||12\n", "id": "220983", "title": "Marlon de Souza Lopes"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220984", "text": "Bruno Quadros\n\nBruno Everton Quadros (born 3 February 1977) is a Brazilian manager and former defender.\n\n121||5||||||||||121||5\n9||0||||||||||9||0\n124||1||8||2||27||3||159||6\n254||6||8||2||27||3||289||11\n", "id": "220984", "title": "Bruno Quadros"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220985", "text": "Erison Carlos dos Santos Silva\n\nErison Carlos dos Santos Silva (born 22 May 1980) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Avaí.\n\n85||8||||||||||85||8\n20||2||1||0||5||1||26||3\n17||0||||||||||17||0\n122||10||1||0||5||1||128||11\n", "id": "220985", "title": "Erison Carlos dos Santos Silva"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220986", "text": "Miodrag Anđelković\n\nMiodrag Anđelković (born 7 December 1977) is a Serbian football player.\n\n45||20\n3||0\n2||0\n11||0\n18||3\n13||3\n18||1\n11||4\n4||1\n6||1\n10||2\n141||35\n", "id": "220986", "title": "Miodrag Anđelković"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220989", "text": "Takashi Kiyama\n\nTakashi Kiyama (born 18 February 1972) is a former Japanese football player.\n\n165||2||19||0||9||0||193||2\n165||2||19||0||9||0||193||2\n\n", "id": "220989", "title": "Takashi Kiyama"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220991", "text": "Shigeki Tsujimoto\n\nShigeki Tsujimoto (born 23 June 1979) is a Japanese football player.\n\n114||5||10||2||9||0||133||7\n114||5||10||2||9||0||133||7\n", "id": "220991", "title": "Shigeki Tsujimoto"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220992", "text": "Michael Rensing\n\nMichael Rensing (born 14 May 1984) is a German football player. He is goalkeeper and plays for 1. FC Köln.\n\n49||0||10||0||14||0||73||0\n49||0||10||0||14||0||73||0\n", "id": "220992", "title": "Michael Rensing"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220993", "text": "Mehmet Scholl\n\nMehmet Scholl (born 16 October 1970) is a former German football player. He has played for Germany national team.\n\n392||98||40||12||10||1||88||18||530||129\n392||98||40||12||10||1||88||18||530||129\n\n!Total||36||8\n", "id": "220993", "title": "Mehmet Scholl"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220994", "text": "Rudolf Skácel\n\nRudolf Skácel (born 17 July 1979) is a Czech football player. He plays for Larissas and Czech Republic national team.\n\n87||24\n20||1\n16||1\n35||16\n79||5\n16||2\n253||49\n\n!Total||5||1\n", "id": "220994", "title": "Rudolf Skácel"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220995", "text": "Martin Jørgensen\n\nMartin Jørgensen (born 6 October 1975) is a Danish football player. He plays for Aarhus and Denmark national team.\n\n82||13\n335||44\n417||57\n\n!Total||93||12\n", "id": "220995", "title": "Martin Jørgensen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220996", "text": "Fernando Couto\n\nFernando Couto (born 2 August 1969) is a former Portuguese football player. He has played for Portugal national team.\n\n107||9\n247||15\n44||0\n398||24\n\n!Total||110||8\n", "id": "220996", "title": "Fernando Couto"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220997", "text": "Morning Musume\n\nIn late 1997, in Japan,a male singer-songwriter called Tsunku, held a contest to find a girl to be the lead singer of the band Sharam Q, which he was the frontman of. A lot of young girls came to the contest, and some of them became finalists. There is where Tsunku came up with the idea of making a girl group. This new group was called Morning Musume (Morning Daughters). The group was formed by Kaori Iida, Yuko Nakazawa, Asuka Fukuda, Aya Ishiguro and Natsumi Abe. They became known as the \"First Generation\" of the group. There have now been twelve of these \"Generations\". Most of these \"Generations\" have a few members. But the Third, Seventh and Twelfth Generations only had one member each.\n\nFrom the start, the songs performed by these girls sold well. They became very famous in Japan (their fame later reached other countries too, thanks to their fans on the World Wide Web), and Tsunku formed other small groups inspired by Morning Musume. He created Hello!Project to hold them all.\n\nOver time, when the girls become older and mature, they usually graduate from the group (but they can be kicked out for not behaving in the way that idols are supposed to behave). After that, they usually become soloists or models. New girls apply for a spot in the group whenever auditions are held. Thousands of girls apply, but very few make it in.\n\nMorning Musume is still a top selling female group. In fact, its sales make it one of the best-selling girl groups in the World today, ranking around 9th - 11th place among girl groups worldwide in recent years, although much of this is probably due to the sheer amount of material released. At present it is known as \"Morning Musume '14\", which is pronounced as \"Morning Musume One Four\". It has new girls and makes singles every few months, plus studio albums about once a year. These singles and studio albums often come in \"limited\" versions with different cover photos and photo cards or posters included. In addition, there are also many live DVD and Blu-Ray releases, as well as photobooks and DVDs featuring certain members wearing clothes that show off how attractive they are. All the girls from the group appear frequently on TV and Radio. Their TV appearances are in the morning, especially for young people. They also make music videos and perform a lot of concerts in Japan, as well as sometimes performing concerts in other countries. Their music videos also come in different versions most of the time.\n\n", "id": "220997", "title": "Morning Musume"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220999", "text": "Trichoptera\n\nThe Trichoptera is an order of insects, also known as caddisflies, sedge-flies, or rail flies. They are usually identified by the setae (hairs) that cover their entire bodies, including their wings. The larvae of many caddisflies species use silk to make protective cases of gravel, sand, twigs or other debris which can be found in clean rivers and streams. \n", "id": "220999", "title": "Trichoptera"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221003", "text": "Tim Curry\n\nTimothy James \"Tim\" Curry (19 April 1946 in Grappenhall, Cheshire, England ), is an English actor, voice actor, singer and composer. He is well known for his roles in \"The Rocky Horror Picture Show\", \"Clue\", \"It\", \"\" and \"The Three Musketeers\". He has released three albums.\n\nOn May 24, 2013, it was reported that Curry had had a massive stroke in his Los Angeles, California home. He later recovered from the stroke. Later Curry's agent stated that the stroke had been in July of 2012 and that Curry had been going to physical therapy.\n\n", "id": "221003", "title": "Tim Curry"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221005", "text": "Scyphozoa\n\nThe Scyphozoa is a class of the phylum Cnidaria, sometimes referred to as the \"true jellyfish\". There are 200 species. The name Scyphozoa comes from a Greek word which refers to the cup shape of the jellyfish.\n\nThe medusa form is the dominant life form, as opposed to the polyp. They eat plankton, small crustaceans and fish larvae, which they capture using stinging cells called nematocysts. The nematocysts are attached to the tentacles that hang down from the edge of the umbrella dome. Scyphozoans have an internal jelly-like material. They have no hard parts, no head, and no specialized organs for respiration or excretion. \n\nUnlike other types of jellyfish, scyphozoans lack a \"velum\", a circular membrane which propels other jellyfish through the water. Scyphozoans move through the water by contracting and relaxing the muscles of their umbrella.\n", "id": "221005", "title": "Scyphozoa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221006", "text": "Reina Tanaka\n\nShe has been a member of the J-pop group Morning musume since January 19, 2003. She entered the group with Eri Kamei, Sayumi Michishige and Miki Fujimoto. The first song she recorded with the group as a leading voice was \"Shabondama\".\n\nIn 2008, Reina was also the voice \"Kirara\", a main character in Sanrio's anime \"Onegai My Melody Kirara\". She was the leader in a new group called High King. This group was made to promote the musical .\n\nIn 2009, she was asked to do the voice for an animated cartoon in the movie with LinLin, also from Morning musume.\n\nIn 2010, Reina will be the voice of a main character in an anime named Kaito Reinya. This is based on Reina herself. The main character of this anime is called Reinya. It is a 13 episode anime, each episode being three minutes long.\n\n\n\nAll shows listed were broadcast by the TV Tokyo Corporation, except Kaito Reinya, which is set to be aired on ANN's KBC TV channel.\n", "id": "221006", "title": "Reina Tanaka"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221016", "text": "Hydrozoa\n\nThe Hydrozoa are a class of the phylum Cnidaria. They are small predatory animals which mostly live in the sea. Their basic life form is the polyp. Some species live singly, others live in colonies. Their classification and evolutionary relationships are still under discussion. The hydroids may be best understood by taking some examples.\n\nThe most widely-known freshwater hydrozoan is \"Hydra\", which is found in slow-moving waters.\n\nIt is sessile, with a pedal disc which attaches it to substrate. Like all cnidarians, \"Hydra\" uses nematocysts, stinging cells which disable its prey. Hydra eat small crustaceans (such as brine shrimp), insect larvae, and annelid worms. It may reproduce sexually, or by asexual reproduction (budding).\n\nThe Portuguese Man o' War, \"Physalia physalis\", is a large colonial marine jellyfish. It is composed of many tiny individual zooids, which are specialised polyps and medusae. The colony has an air bladder, and floats on the surface. It delivers a massive sting to its prey. Humans, if stung, may require medical attention. It is often accompanied by fish which are immune to the stings. This type of hydrozoan is called a siphonophore.\n\nThe chondrophores are another type of pelagic colonial hydrozoan. They are also carnivores, but their sting is not so harmful to humans.\n\nThese have a muscular \"velum\" on the ventral surface, which allows them to move about. Beginning life as a tiny polyp, attached to vegetation, they feed and reproduce sexually in the spring and summer. If the habitat has only one sex, they reproduce by budding. They overwinter as resting bodies.\n\nNowadays the Hydrozoa is split into two subclasses:\n", "id": "221016", "title": "Hydrozoa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221017", "text": "Peechelba, Victoria\n\nPeechelba is a small town in northeastern Victoria, Australia. The town is between Wangaratta and Yarrawonga and northwest of the state capital, Melbourne. In 2006 there were about 116 people living in and around Peechelba.\n\nThe town is home to a nature reserve and is close the Ovens River.\n\nPeechelba Post Office opened on 2 September 1880 to the north where the town is now, and was renamed Bundalong South in 1883. In 1883 a new Peechelba office opened which closed in 1889. In 1890 Peechelba Town office opened, closing in 1969. A railway station was opened in Peechelba on 31 October 1927. The line was closed on 8 December 1986. A primary school was opened at Peechelba in 1880 and closed in 1903. A new school opened at Peechelba Township in 1891 and was closed in 1970.\n\nPeechelba Beef is now the largest feedlot in the Southern Hemisphere.\n\nThe bushranger Mad Dan Morgan held up people at Peechelba Station (farm) on the evening of 8 April 1865. The children's nurse, Alice Macdonald, was able to let the police know. They soon surrounded the main house. Jack Quinlan, a stockman at the station, shot and fatally wounded Morgan. Morgan died the next day at 1.45 p.m. His body was taken to Wangaratta and put on public show. People ripped off his hair and beard as souvenirs. His head was cut off and sent to the professor of anatomy at the University of Melbourne. He was buried on 14 April in Wangaratta cemetery.\n", "id": "221017", "title": "Peechelba, Victoria"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221020", "text": "Box jellyfish\n\nThe Cubozoa, the box jellies, contain some of the most dangerous jellyfish in the phylum Cnidaria. They make up a small class of Cnidarians, with only 19 species. It is their powerful venom which makes them noteworthy.\n\nAll cubozoans have four 'legs' (pedalia) hanging from the corners, from which hang tentacles. They have a rudimentary neural network. The cubozoans can move through the water to actively hunt prey, and have a degree of sight as they have up to 24 eyes. Cubozoans have two main eyes on each of the four pedalia, each with a lens, retina and cornea; and some species also have eye-spots as well. \n\nThe box jellies are found in tropical oceanic waters round the world. Their venom is delivered by stinging nematocysts, which cluster on tentacles, each with half a million stinging cells. The largest species, \"Chironex fleckeri\", has caused many human deaths. The pain of an attack is agonising, and heart failure is a danger. The attack can be treated: first with vinegar, then remove stingers, then apply anti-venom.\n", "id": "221020", "title": "Box jellyfish"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221030", "text": "The Telltale Head\n\n\"The Telltale Head\" is the eighth episode of \"The Simpsons\" first season, and it first started February 25, 1990. It was written by Al Jean, Mike Reiss, Sam Simon, Matt Groening, and directed by Rich Moore. In this episode, Bart cuts the head off of the statue in the center of town to impress Jimbo Jones, Kearney Zzyzwicz, and Dolphin \"Dolph\" Starbeam, three children Bart likes. When the children tell Bart that they would \"break every bone in the body of the person who cut the head off the statue\" (not knowing Bart stole the head), Bart sees the mistake of his ways. After telling his family, Homer and Bart head to the center of town, where they are met by angry people of Springfield. After Bart tells the angry group of people he has made a mistake, the townspeople forgive Bart. The episode's title is a reference to the short story \"The Tell-Tale Heart\" by Edgar Allan Poe.\n\n", "id": "221030", "title": "The Telltale Head"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221031", "text": "Life on the Fast Lane\n\n\"Life on the Fast Lane\", also known as \"Jacques To Be Wild\", is the ninth episode of The Simpsons first season, which first started on March 18, 1990. It was written by John Swartzwelder and directed by David Silverman. Albert Brooks guest starred as Jacques, a French bowling teacher, with him being credited as \"A. Brooks\". In this episode, Marge deals with becoming with Jacques. It won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Animated Program (for Programming Less Than One Hour) in 1990.\n\n", "id": "221031", "title": "Life on the Fast Lane"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221032", "text": "Homer's Night Out\n\n\"Homer's Night Out\" is the tenth episode of The Simpsons first season, and first started on March 25, 1990. It was written by Jon Vitti and directed by Rich Moore. In this episode, Bart orders a mail-order spy camera, which he uses, without Homer knowing, take a photograph of Homer dancing with a belly dancer. Marge makes Homer say he's sorry to the dancer to teach Bart that women are not objects. Sam McMurray guest stars in the episode as Gulliver Dark, the man that shows Homer to the crowd at the burlesque show.\n\nThe episode was well liked by people and it was the second highest rated show on the Fox network the week it first started. This episode, along with three other episodes of the show, is featured on The Simpsons Gone Wild DVD released in 2004.\n", "id": "221032", "title": "Homer's Night Out"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221035", "text": "The Crepes of Wrath\n\n\"The Crepes of Wrath\" is the eleventh episode of \"The Simpsons\" first season, and first aired April 15, 1990. The episode was written by George Meyer, Sam Simon, John Swartzwelder and Jon Vitti, and was directed by Wes Archer and Milton Gray. In this episode, Bart is sent to France on a student exchange trip, where his hosts treat him like a slave. While that's going on in France, an Albanian student takes Bart's place in the Simpsons family, and shows great interest in Homer's work at the \"Nuclear Power Plant\".\n\nThe episode got overall good reviews from people, and in 1997, David Bauder from TV Guide named this episode the greatest episode of \"The Simpsons\", and the 17th greatest episode of any television show of all time.\n", "id": "221035", "title": "The Crepes of Wrath"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221036", "text": "Milkweed butterfly\n\nThe Danainae is a subfamily of butterflies. It belongs in the family Nymphalidae. There are over 200 species. They are commonly known as Milkweed butterflies or danaids.\n\nThese butterflies are common in tropical places all over the world. One of the most famous butterflies, the Monarch (\"Danaus plexippus\"), belongs in this subfamily. The larvae and the butterflies get poisonous glycosides from their larval host plant, the milkweed, so they become distasteful to predators. These milkweed butterflies (Monarch, Queen, Soldier) eat only milkweeds (\"Asclepias\") as larvae. This highly effective defence strategy shields them against almost all predators. Birds soon learn to avoid these species after attempting to eat them.\n\nMales in this subfamily have anal hairs. This body part at the end of the abdomen can be pulled back inside the body. They also have spots on the bottom wings that release scents to attract females. The male raises his abdomen and puts his hair pencils into the androconia. After the hairs have the chemical on them, the male will use them during courtship.\n\n\n", "id": "221036", "title": "Milkweed butterfly"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221041", "text": "Krusty Gets Busted\n\n\"Krusty Gets Busted\" is the twelfth episode of \"The Simpsons\" first season, and first started on April 29, 1990. The episode was written by Jay Kogen and Wallace Wolodarsky, and directed by Brad Bird. In this episode, Krusty the Clown, a well-known TV comedian, is convicted of the robbery of the \"Kwik-E-Mart.\" Bart and Lisa looked for clues, and were convinced that Krusty had been framed.\n\nThis episode is the first full appearance of Kent Brockman, and Kelsey Grammer makes his first guest appearance on the show as the voice of \"Sideshow Bob.\" The episode was well liked by people, and it was the highest-rated show on the Fox Network the week it started.\n", "id": "221041", "title": "Krusty Gets Busted"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221042", "text": "Vernonia gigantea\n\nTall Ironweed (\"Vernonia gigantea\") is a species of plant. It belongs in the family Asteraceae. It is native to eastern North America.\n\n", "id": "221042", "title": "Vernonia gigantea"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221044", "text": "Some Enchanted Evening\n\n\"Some Enchanted Evening\" is the thirteenth and final episode of The Simpsons first season and first started on the Fox network on May 13, 1990. Although it was the first episode made, it started on television as the season finale because of many animation problems. In the episode, Bart, Lisa, and Maggie meet the \"Babysitter Bandit\". After answering a , Homer and Marge want to spend a night on the town so they need a babysitter to look after their children. They hire Ms. Botz through a babysitting service. Ms. Botz is later known to be the \"Babysitter Bandit\" and after tying up Bart and Lisa, she robs the family.\n\nThe episode has references to such films as \"The Night of the Hunter\" and \"Psycho\" as well as a musical reference to \"A Star Is Born.\" It got some good and bad reviews; some people thought it the best episode of the season, while others thought it the season's worst.\n", "id": "221044", "title": "Some Enchanted Evening"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221046", "text": "Hesperis matronalis\n\nDame's Rocket (\"Hesperis matronalis\") is a species of plant. It belongs in the family Brassicaceae. It has been introduced to North America. It blooms from May to June. It can be found in habitats such as roadsides and open woods. It grows from 51 to 102 cm. (20 to 40 in.).\n\n", "id": "221046", "title": "Hesperis matronalis"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221048", "text": "Mikhail Lermontov\n\nMikhail Yuryevich Lermontov was Russian poet, writer, dramaturge, painter and officer. Mikhail Lermontov was born on October 15 (October 3 in old style) in 1814 in Moscow. Died July 25 (July 18) in 1841 in Pyatigorsk. \n\nM. Lermontov was born in the family of a captain Yury Petrovich Lermontov and Mary Mikhailovna Lermontova. There was bad situation in his family: his parents sweared each other.\nLermontov's mother had died very early and his grandmother became a parent for Mikhail without his father.\nWhen Lermontov was a child, he lived on land, which Arseneva held, in the region of Penza. He was studying at home. He knew French and German quite well since he was a child. In the summer of 1825, Lermontov and his grandmother had visited waters of Caucasus. Later, he wrote poems about nature and people of Caucasus like \"Caucasus\" and \"Blue waters of Caucasus, I greet you...\". In 1827 his family had moved to Moscow. In 1828 Lermontov had humanitarian education. In 1828-1829 he wrote poems \"Corsair\", \"The criminal\", \"Oleg\" and others. In March of 1830, the Moscow boarding house, where Lermontov studied, became a classical school. In 1830 Lermontov left for a summer classical school. Then he spent time in country Serednikovo near Moscow, held by Stolypins. At the same year poet became a student of a Moscow university. In 1832 he went to Saint Petersburg. He became a student of Nicolay's cavalry college. After he had finished his studying he went to Caucasus. He arrived from Caucasus with lots of poems. Lermontov died in a duel with Martynov Nikolay Solomonovich in Pyatigorsk.\n\n", "id": "221048", "title": "Mikhail Lermontov"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221052", "text": "Danaini\n\nDanaini is a tribe of butterflies. It belongs in the subfamily Danainae. Most of the species are found in southeast Asia. The well known Monarch (\"Danaus plexippus\") belongs in this tribe.\n\n\n", "id": "221052", "title": "Danaini"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221056", "text": "Bart Gets an F\n\n\"Bart Gets an F\" is the first episode of \"The Simpsons\" second season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on October 11, 1990. In this episode, Bart fails four history exams in a row and the school psychiatrist recommends that Bart repeat the fourth grade. Bart says that he will start to do better and tries to get the class smarty-pants Martin Prince to help him, but after that fails, Bart prays for help. That night, Springfield is hit with a big blizzard and the school is closed, giving Bart one more day to study.\n", "id": "221056", "title": "Bart Gets an F"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221066", "text": "Simpson and Delilah\n\n\"Simpson and Delilah\" is the second episode of The Simpsons second season and first started on October 18, 1990. In this episode, Homer uses the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant medical insurance plan to buy \"dimoxinil\", a hair growth formula. Homer grows hair, and is given a rank up at work which allows him to hire a secretary named Karl. The episode was directed by Rich Moore, written by Jon Vitti and guest starred Harvey Fierstein as Karl.\n", "id": "221066", "title": "Simpson and Delilah"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221076", "text": "Two Cars in Every Garage and Three Eyes on Every Fish\n\n\"Two Cars in Every Garage and Three Eyes on Every Fish\" is the fourth episode of The Simpsons second season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on November 1, 1990. In this episode, Bart catches a three-eyed fish in a river downstream of the Springfield Nuclear Power Plant. This makes the Plant to become inspected, and in order to let the Plant from being shut down, Mr. Burns decides to run for governor. After a hard campaign which sees Burns rise from being universally to running neck and neck with Mary Bailey, it is decided that Burns will have dinner with a random employee the night before the election. Homer is chosen, much to Marge's chagrin.\n", "id": "221076", "title": "Two Cars in Every Garage and Three Eyes on Every Fish"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221077", "text": "Câmpulung Moldovenesc\n\nCâmpulung Moldovenesc (also spelled \"Cîmpulung Moldovenesc\"; , ) is a city in Suceava County, which used to be in the Bukovina region of Moldavia in North Eastern Romania. The city is on the banks of the Moldova River.\n\nCâmpulung Moldovenesc has a population of 20,076 people. The main industries in Câmpulung Moldovenesc are dairy products, lumber, and ecotourism.\n\nCâmpulung Moldovenesc can be reached by both car and train. Attractions in and around Câmpulung include Rarău and Giumalău, which at 1650m and 1857m are the highest mountains in the region. Forests are near Câmpulung and there are monasteries in nearby villages.\n\nThere are also several synagogues in the Câmpulung area. The pre-war Chief Rabbi of Campulung was Rabbi Moses Josef Rubin, a well known person involved in Hasidic Judaism. In the year 1941 on Yom Kippur, the rabbi's important library was destroyed by local Iron Guard gangsters. He was treated badly and was asked to sign a document which says that he had hidden dynamite in the synagogue to be used for sabotage. Because he refused to sign this document, he and his son Samuel were tied to a cart loaded with stolen goods and driven with a gun pointed at them, while being beaten up. All the synagogues in the city were robbed of their valuables.\n\n", "id": "221077", "title": "Câmpulung Moldovenesc"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221078", "text": "Câmpulung (disambiguation)\n\nCâmpulung can refer to these places in Romania:\n", "id": "221078", "title": "Câmpulung (disambiguation)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221082", "text": "Dancin' Homer\n\n\"Dancin' Homer\" is the fifth episode of the second season of \"The Simpsons\". It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on November 8, 1990. In this episode, Homer fires up the crowd at a Springfield Isotopes baseball game and is chosen to be the team's new mascot. He becomes a well liked attraction very fast and the \"Isotopes\" start a winning streak. As a result, Homer has ranked up to a team in Capital City, the \"Capital City Capitals\". The Simpson family moves there, but Homer fails to excite the crowd, and the family returns home.\n", "id": "221082", "title": "Dancin' Homer"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221087", "text": "Dead Putting Society\n\n\"Dead Putting Society\" is the sixth episode of The Simpsons second season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on November 15, 1990, and was the first episode to have the \"Flanders family\" . In this episode, Bart, and Ned Flanders' son, Todd, decide to enter a miniature golf tournament. Homer becomes sure that Bart will win and makes a bet with Ned that the father of losing boy will have to mow their neighbors lawn in their wife's Sunday dress. On the day of the tournament, Bart and Todd make the finals but made it a draw, which meant both Homer and Ned had to fulfill the bet.\n", "id": "221087", "title": "Dead Putting Society"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221088", "text": "Bart vs. Thanksgiving\n\n\"Bart vs. Thanksgiving\" is the seventh episode of The Simpsons second season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on November 22, 1990. In this episode, Lisa makes a table centerpiece for the Thanksgiving dinner, which Bart destroys. After he is sent to his room by his parents, Bart runs away from home and stays at a soup kitchen for homeless people. Bart returns home eventually and climbs to the roof of the Simpson family's house, where he hears Lisa crying. He says he's sorry to her, and the family happily enjoys a meal of leftovers.\n", "id": "221088", "title": "Bart vs. Thanksgiving"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221090", "text": "Eupatorium perfoliatum\n\nCommon Boneset (\"Eupatorium perfoliatum\") a species of plant. It belongs in the family Asteraceae. It is native to eastern North America. It blooms from July to October. Its flowers are white. They are rarely purple. It is found in habitats such as moist woodlands, and swamps. It grows to a height of 0.6 to 1.2 m (2 to 4 ft).\n\n", "id": "221090", "title": "Eupatorium perfoliatum"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221108", "text": "Eutrochium maculatum\n\nSpotted Joe-pye weed (\"Eutrochium maculatum\") is a species of plant. It belongs in the family Asteraceae. It is found in North America. Its height ranges from 60 to 200 cm. (24 to 79 in.).\n\n", "id": "221108", "title": "Eutrochium maculatum"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221117", "text": "Syringa vulgaris\n\nCommon Lilac (\"Syringa vulgaris\") is a species of plant in the family Oleaceae. \n\nIt is native to the Balkan Peninsula in southeastern Europe where it grows on rocky hills. \n\nIt has been introduced to North America.\n\n", "id": "221117", "title": "Syringa vulgaris"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221122", "text": "Staurozoa\n\nThe Staurozoa are a Class in the phylum Cnidaria. It includes the stalked jellyfish. It was an order within the Class Scyphozoa, but recent genetic work has shown it to be a class of its own. This is a small class of about 50 species, mostly inshore and quite small. The recent discovery of some Staurozoa near deep sea hydrothermal vents was a surprise, and makes it clear that there is much more to learn about them.\n\nThe Staurozoa are unique in not having an alternation of polyp and medusa life cycle phases. They have an attached \"medusa\" stage, with a life style looking rather like polypoid forms. \n\nMembers of this class are commonly found in relatively cold waters, close to the shoreline. After the larvae crawl across the sea floor and find a suitable place, they attach themselves to rocks or algae.\n", "id": "221122", "title": "Staurozoa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221129", "text": "Alfalfa\n\nAlfalfa (\"Medicago sativa\") is a species of flowering plant in the family Fabaceae. It is also known as the lucerne. It is native to the Near East and central Asia. It has been introduced to Europe, central Africa, China, North America, and South America. Alfalfa is a crop. It is used to feed livestock.\n\nAlfalfa is high in protein, calcium and other minerals, vitamins in the B group, vitamin C, vitamin D, vitamin E, and vitamin K. The sun-dried hay of alfalfa has been found to be a source of vitamin D, containing 48 ng/g (1920 IU/kg) vitamin D and 0.63 ng/g (25 IU/kg) vitamin D. There is reference to vitamin D and vitamin D being found in the alfalfa shoot; this is awaiting verification. Mushrooms are not allowed in Jain vegetarianism, making alfalfa the only known source which Jains can use to make vitamin D supplements.\n\n", "id": "221129", "title": "Alfalfa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221142", "text": "Sessility (zoology)\n\nSessile is a common term in biology; it is the opposite of motile. It means to stay in one place on the ground. It is used mainly for marine and freshwater species. They often have larvae which are motile, float or swim, and adult forms which are stationary. Many sessile forms can move from place if they need to. The key idea is that they choose a suitable place, and stay fixed as long as they can. They usually secrete some substance which holds them on.\n", "id": "221142", "title": "Sessility (zoology)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221145", "text": "Bart the Daredevil\n\n\"Bart the Daredevil\" is the eighth episode of \"The Simpsons\" second season and first started on December 6, 1990. It was written by Jay Kogen and Wallace Wolodarsky and directed by Wes Archer. In this episode, the Simpsons go to a Monster truck that has famous daredevil \"Lance Murdock.\" Bart immediately becomes and decides that he wants to become a daredevil as well. Bart's first trick ends in injury, and although the family and \"Dr. Hibbert's\" best efforts, Bart continues to try tricks. Bart decides to jump the Springfield , but Homer learns about Bart's plan and makes him promise not to jump it. However, Bart breaks his promise and goes to jump the gorge. Before the act, though, Homer stops him just in time and gets Bart to promise that he will stop being a daredevil homer then takes Bart's place in jump and very nearly dies.\n\nSeries creator Matt Groening said that the episode is his favorite of the series, and it is also thought among the series's best by television people.\n", "id": "221145", "title": "Bart the Daredevil"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221155", "text": "Itchy &amp; Scratchy &amp; Marge\n\n\"Itchy & Scratchy & Marge\" is the ninth episode of \"The Simpsons\" second season. It was first aired on December 20, 1990. In this episode, Maggie attacks Homer with a mallet and Marge blames \"The Itchy & Scratchy Show\" for Maggie's actions. It was written by John Swartzwelder and was the first episode to be directed by Jim Reardon. Alex Rocco makes his first of three guest appearances as Roger Meyers, Jr.\n", "id": "221155", "title": "Itchy &amp; Scratchy &amp; Marge"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221173", "text": "UIC classification of locomotive axle arrangements\n\nThe UIC classification of locomotive axle arrangements describes the wheel arrangement of locomotives, multiple units and trams. It is set out in the International Union of Railways (UIC) \"Leaflet 650 - Standard designation of axle arrangement on locomotives and multiple-unit sets\". It is used in much of the world. The United Kingdom used a related scheme. The United States uses the simplified AAR wheel arrangement for modern locomotives.\n", "id": "221173", "title": "UIC classification of locomotive axle arrangements"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221180", "text": "Alexander Mackenzie\n\nAlexander Mackenzie, PC (January 28, 1822 – April 17, 1892) was the second Prime Minister of Canada.\n", "id": "221180", "title": "Alexander Mackenzie"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221188", "text": "Josh Mathews\n\nJosh Lomberger (born November 25, 1980) is an American presenter, announcer and former professional wrestler. As of 2014, he is signed to Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA), after being let go from the WWE.\n\nHe is best known for his time with the WWE. During that time, he used the ring name Josh Mathews. He worked as a backstage announcer and commentator for them. Matthews competed on WWE Tough Enough in 2001. He came in 3rd. Matthews has been working for the WWE since 2003. He has been the commentator for Velocity, Heat, Superstars and ECW. He was the host of the WWE webcast \"Byte This!\" Matthews competed in the ring briefly in 2004 when he was the tag team partner for Booker T in a match. He won a match with Orlando Jordan.\n\nOn June 25, 2014, he was released from the WWE.\n\nIn December 2014, TNA said that Mathews would replace Mike Tenay as lead announcer of \"Impact Wrestling\" when it starts on Destination America in January 2015.\n\n", "id": "221188", "title": "Josh Mathews"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221192", "text": "Saurolophus\n\nSaurolophus was a duck-billed dinosaur. It lived during the Upper Cretaceous period, 69.5-68.5 million years ago, toward the end of the Mesozoic Era.\n\n\"Saurolophus\" had a 5 inch (13 cm) long bony spike extending up from its forehead. There is speculation that this spike was attached to a flap of skin that covered the nostrils and could be blown up for displays and noise-making. Many \"Saurolophus\" fossils have been found, including one with fossilized skin impressions, in Alberta, Canada and Mongolia, China.\n", "id": "221192", "title": "Saurolophus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221194", "text": "Stegoceras\n\nStegoceras was a small, plant-eating dinosaur that had a large, thick-skulled head. This dinosaur may have butted heads with others of its kind in bone-shaking contests. Many \"Stegoceras\" and other pachycephalosaur fossils have been found in Alberta, Canada, and Montana, USA.\n\n\"Stegoceras\" was a herding dinosaur that lived in small groups in coastal and upland regions. Running was probably its first line of defense. \"Stegoceras\" lived during the late Cretaceous period, toward the end of the Mesozoic Era, the Age of Reptiles, about 76-65 million years ago. \"Stegoceras\" was first found in 1889.\n\nImages of the insides of \"Stegoceras\"' fossilised skull showed two layers of dense bone that encase a spongy sinus held apart by tiny struts, has led some scientists to doubt this interpretation.\n\nComputer tomographic (CT) scans on the skulls of \"Stegoceras\", along with a variety of modern animals were used to create 3D models of the animals' heads. The team was then able to exert virtual stresses to test how the different skulls held up.\n\nCompared to some of today's big hitters, such as the Northern American bighorn sheep, Stegoceras' head was able to withstand the most stress.\n", "id": "221194", "title": "Stegoceras"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221195", "text": "Lambeosaurus\n\nLambeosaurus was a crested, duck-billed dinosaur. Its large hollow, bony crest was as big as the rest of its skull. Its function has been much discussed.\n\n\"Lambeosaurus\" lived during the later Cretaceous period, about 76 to 75 million years ago (mya). Fossils of it have been found in Alberta (Canada), Montana (USA), and Baja California (Mexico), but only the two Canadian species have been described in detail. Apparently, the Mexican species, \"Lambeosaurus laticaudus\", grew to be about 50 feet long (15 m), weighing 5.6 tons. It is the longest-known ornithischian dinosaur. The other species were smaller.\n\n\"Lambeosaurus\" was described by Dr. William A. Parks in 1923, 20 years after Lawrence Lambe (an early Canadian fossil hunter) had studied it. The genus ranged over much of North America, and into Mexico.\n\nAs a hadrosaurid, \"Lambeosaurus\" was a large bipedal/quadrupedal herbivore, eating plants. It had a sophisticated skull that allowed a grinding motion like mammalian chewing. Its teeth were continually replaced and were packed into dental batteries that each contained over 100 teeth, only a relative handful of which were in use at any time. \n\nIt used its beak to crop plant material, which was held in the jaws by a cheek-like organ. Feeding would have been from the ground up to around 4 meters (13 ft) above. \n\nLambeosaurines have narrower beaks than hadrosaurines, which suggests that \"Lambeosaurus\" and its relatives could feed more selectively than their broad-beaked, crestless counterparts.\n\nLike other lambeosaurines such as \"Parasaurolophus\" and \"Corythosaurus\", \"Lambeosaurus\" had a distinctive crest on the top of its head. Its nasal cavity ran back through this crest, making it mostly hollow. Many suggestions have been made for the function or functions of the crest. They include housing salt glands, improving the sense of smell, use as a snorkel or air trap, acting as a resonating chamber for making sounds, or being a method for different species or different sexes of the same species to recognize each other. Social functions such as noisemaking and recognition have become the most widely accepted of these hypotheses.\n\nThe large size of hadrosaurid eyes and the presence of sclerotic rings in the eyes imply acute vision and diurnal habits, evidence that sight was important to these animals. The hadrosaurid sense of hearing also appears to be strong. There is at least one example, in the related \"Corythosaurus\", of a slender stapes in place, which combined with a large space for an eardrum implies a sensitive middle ear. The auditory part of the inner ear was well-developed. If used as a noisemaker, the crest could also have provided recognizable differences for different species or sexes, because the differing layouts of the nasal passages corresponding to the different crest shapes would have produced different sounds.\n", "id": "221195", "title": "Lambeosaurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221199", "text": "Yuji Hashimoto\n\nYuji Hashimoto (born 13 May 1970) is a former Japanese football player.\n\n102||4||8||0||11||0||121||4\n102||4||8||0||11||0||121||4\n", "id": "221199", "title": "Yuji Hashimoto"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221200", "text": "Yuji Yaso\n\n46||2||2||0||0||0||48||2\n46||2||2||0||0||0||48||2\n", "id": "221200", "title": "Yuji Yaso"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221201", "text": "Atsushi Shirai\n\nAtsushi Shirai (born 18 April 1966) is a former Japanese football player.\n\n210||0||6||0||9||0||225||0\n210||0||6||0||9||0||225||0\n", "id": "221201", "title": "Atsushi Shirai"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221202", "text": "Niclas Alexandersson\n\nNiclas Alexandersson (born 29 December 1971) is a former Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.\n\n316||55\n141||12\n457||67\n\n!Total||109||7\n", "id": "221202", "title": "Niclas Alexandersson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221203", "text": "Barry Ferguson\n\nBarry Ferguson (born 2 February 1978) is a Scottish football player. He plays for Birmingham City and Scotland national team.\n\n290||44||34||6||24||4||82||7||430||61\n36||3||1||0||1||1||colspan=\"2\"|-||38||4\n326||47||35||6||25||5||82||7||468||65\n\n!Total||45||3\n", "id": "221203", "title": "Barry Ferguson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221204", "text": "Alexander Frei\n\nAlexander Frei (born 15 July 1979) is a Swiss football player. He plays for Basel and the Switzerland national team.\n\n159||60\n100||46\n74||34\n333||140\n\n!Total||73||40\n", "id": "221204", "title": "Alexander Frei"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221206", "text": "Petit\n\nPetit (born 25 September 1976) is a Portuguese football player. He plays for Köln.\n\n329||32\n31||3\n360||35\n\n!Total||56||4\n", "id": "221206", "title": "Petit"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221207", "text": "Gary Naysmith\n\nGary Naysmith (born 16 November 1978) is a Scottish football player. He plays for Sheffield United and Scotland national team.\n\n97||3||10||0||5||1||7||0||119||4\n211||6||20||0||10||1||colspan=\"2\"|-||241||7\n308||9||30||0||15||2||7||0||360||11\n\n!Total||46||1\n", "id": "221207", "title": "Gary Naysmith"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221210", "text": "Colin Lloyd\n\nColin Lloyd (born 7 August 1973 in Colchester, Essex), nicknamed \"Jaws\", is an English professional darts player. He is a player on the Professional Darts Corporation circuit. He used to be a world champion and he has won two major titles in the PDC.\n\nHe appeared in the Dartsworld in 1999. In 2000, he had his first time on television. In 2002, he recorded his first major success when he lost in the semi-finals of the PDC World Championships against Peter Manley. In 2003 he reached the semifinals of the Las Vegas Desert Classics, 2004, he won the Sky Bet World Grand Prix 2005, the World Matchplay in Blackpool. In 2005 he was pitted against Phil Taylor in the finale. From 2004/2005 until the beginning of 2006 he was the No. 1 ranked player in the PDC.\n\n", "id": "221210", "title": "Colin Lloyd"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221222", "text": "Andy Millen\n\nAndrew \"Andy\" Frank Millen (born 10 June 1965, in Glasgow) is a Scottish retired professional footballer who played in defence. He is the assistant manager of St. Mirren. During his career, Millen played for St Johnstone, Alloa Athletic, Hamilton Academical, Kilmarnock, Hibernian, Raith Rovers, Ayr United, Greenock Morton, Clyde and finished his career with St. Mirren in the Scottish Premier League.\n\nHe currently holds the record for oldest player to have played in Scottish Premier League in a match playing for St. Mirren vs Hearts, at the age of 42 years 279 days, on 15 March 2008.\n", "id": "221222", "title": "Andy Millen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221224", "text": "Scott Robinson\n\nScott Robinson (born 12 March 1992 in Edinburgh) is a Scottish professional football player currently playing for Heart of Midlothian in the Scottish Premier League.\n\nHe is the youngest player in SPL history. He is also the youngest player to have ever played football for Hearts, having made his first play in a 1-0 win over Inverness Caledonian Thistle on 26 April 2008. He was 16 years, 1 month and 14 days old.\n", "id": "221224", "title": "Scott Robinson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221226", "text": "David Goodwillie\n\nDavid Goodwillie (born 28 March 1989 in Stirling) is a Scottish footballer who currently plays for Dundee United in the Scottish Premier League.\n", "id": "221226", "title": "David Goodwillie"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221228", "text": "Anthony Stokes\n\nAnthony Stokes (born 25 July 1988 in Dublin) is a professional footballer who plays as a striker for Scottish Premier League club Hibernian. He has also played for the Republic of Ireland national football team.\n", "id": "221228", "title": "Anthony Stokes"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221230", "text": "Steven Pressley\n\nSteven John Pressley (born October 11, 1973 in Elgin, Moray) is a Scottish former international footballer. He last played for Falkirk in the Scottish Premier League. He was joint Scotland assistant manager with Terry Butcher until September 2009.\n", "id": "221230", "title": "Steven Pressley"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221232", "text": "Craig Gordon\n\nCraig Sinclair Gordon (born 31 December 1982 in Edinburgh) is a Scottish footballer, currently playing as a goalkeeper for both Sunderland and the Scotland national team.\n", "id": "221232", "title": "Craig Gordon"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221234", "text": "Alan Hutton\n\nAlan Hutton (born 30 November 1984) is a Scottish professional footballer who plays for Premier League club Tottenham Hotspur and also the Scottish national team. He is a right back.\n", "id": "221234", "title": "Alan Hutton"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221261", "text": "Justin Roberts\n\nJustin Jason Roberts (born December 29, 1979) is an American ring announcer. He is best known for his time with the WWE.\n\nRoberts began watching wrestling, after he saw Saturday Night's Main Event and met Kerry Von Erich and The Ultimate Warrior at a hotel in Wisconsin. The combined events made Roberts become a fan of professional wrestling. He also trained for a short time as a referee so he could be in the same ring as Curt Hennig, because he was a fan of him.\n\nRoberts began ring announcing at age 16 for local professional wrestling promotion Pro Wrestling International, and announced his first match in November 1996. While studying Media Arts and Communications at the University of Arizona from 1998 to 2002, Roberts worked for other independent promotions such as the American Wrestling Alliance, All Pro Wrestling, and Impact Zone Wrestling. During this time, he also announced for the Toughman Contest.\n\nIn 2002, Roberts was hired by World Wrestling Entertainment as a backup announcer for \"SmackDown\", and then by moving to the \"Raw\" brand. He also worked on \"Velocity\" and \"Heat\" shows while touring as the full time \"Raw\" live event announcer. Also, Roberts announced the ECW show each week on the Sci Fi Network until September 2007, before swapping with SmackDown's Tony Chimel. Roberts was the most well known in his career when he announced the main event of WrestleMania XXIV between Edge and The Undertaker on March 30, 2008. Also announcing \"SmackDown\" and pay-per-view matches, Roberts would also announce on \"WWE Superstars\", including its first episode on April 16, 2009.\n\nBeginning on September 28, 2009, Roberts took over the \"Raw\" announcing job from Lilian Garcia.\n\nOn October 13, 2014, WWE decided not to renew his contract.\n\n", "id": "221261", "title": "Justin Roberts"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221267", "text": "Wisdom literature\n\nWisdom literature is a genre of literature that was common in the ancient Near East. Wisdom literature is about sayings of wisdom that teach about divinity and wisdom. The story-telling used is the same than in other forms of literature. Wisdom literature tells the reader has about how nature is made, and what reality is. \nThere are two kinds of wisdom literature:\nSayings are generalized. Speculative wisdom literature are about a person, and its relationship to questions such as the meaning of life, suffering or the relationship between that person and a deity.\n\nThe Jews sometimes say the Old Testament is the Law, the Prophets, and the Writings. Included inside the Writings are Psalms and wisdom materials like Job, Proverbs, and Ecclesiastes. These wisdom books are related to certain people called \"wise men\" who were an important part of Israelite society. () \n\n", "id": "221267", "title": "Wisdom literature"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221270", "text": "Map lichen\n\nThe map lichen is a species of lichen, Rhizocarpon geographicum. It grows on rocks in areas of low air pollution. Each lichen is a flat patch bordered by a black line of spores. These patches grow next to each other. This makes the lichen look like a map or a patchwork field.\n\nMap lichen is a lichen widely used by climatologists to determine the relative age of deposits. As an example, they might use it in a moraine systems, to tell how long a rock has been exposed. With this they can also tell about glacial advances. The process is called lichenometry.\nLichenometry is based on the assumption that the largest lichen growing on a rock is the oldest individual. If the growth rate is known, the maximum lichen size will give a minimum age for when this rock was deposited. \n\nGrowth rates for different areas and species can be obtained by measuring maximum lichen sizes on substrates of known age, such as gravestones, historic or prehistoric rock buildings, or moraines of known age (e.g. those deposited during the Little Ice Age).\n", "id": "221270", "title": "Map lichen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221271", "text": "Die Frau vom Checkpoint Charlie\n\nDie Frau vom Checkpoint Charlie (English: The Woman of Checkpoint Charlie) is a movie in two parts about a woman who manages to escape to the west from the German Democratic Republic (East Germany), but is separated from her children. She spent six years trying to get the East German government to allow her daughters to join her in the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany). It is based on a true story. It was first shown on French-German television station ARTE on 28 September 2007.\n\nThe woman’s name was Jutta Fleck. In the movie she is called Sara Bender. She is played by the actress Veronica Ferres. Her children were called Claudia and Beate. In the movie they are called Silvia and Sabine (or “Bine” – pronounce “BEE-ne” - for short).\n\nIn 1982 Sara Bender is living with her two daughters Silvia (11) und Sabine (9) in Erfurt in the GDR (East Germany). Their mother said some things that criticized the government of their country. In a communist country like the GDR it was a bad thing to be critical of the government. Because of what their mother said, her children were treated badly at school.\n\nSara wants to marry Peter Koch, whom she knows at work. A wedding is arranged. Sara’s father lives in Helmstedt in the West Germany. He travels to his daughter’s wedding, but on the way he has an accident on the motorway and is seriously injured. The wedding is postponed. Sara wants to visit her father in hospital in West Germany, but the government of the GDR do not allow her to go because of the critical things she had said. Her father dies. Sara still keeps asking for permission to leave her country, but she is not allowed, and things are made difficult for her at work.\n\nShe tries to escape from the GDR with her two daughters. They manage to get to Romania, and they want to go to Yugoslavia, but they are caught by the East German secret police (Stasi). The Stasi knew they were going to try to escape because they had put secret microphones in Sara’s flat so that they could hear everything that was said. Sara and the children are brought back to East Berlin. At the airport the children are separated from their mother. They are taken to a children’s home in Dresden. Sara is locked up in a police cell. Her friend Peter, whom she had wanted to marry, turns out to be on the side of the Stasi. He works against her. Sara is sentenced to three years in prison.\n\nAfter two years in prison Sara is let out, thanks to the West German government who paid the GDR to free her and let her come to the West. She is still not allowed to see her two daughters who had been sent to live with a foster family who were loyal to the communist government. Sara is tricked into signing papers which actually mean that she no longer has any rights to see her daughters.\n\nSara cannot bear to be in the West without her daughters. She immediately starts to beg the GDR to let her daughters join her, but nothing happens. Even the West German government does not help her, because, for political reasons, they do not want to make bad relationships with the GDR in East Berlin.\n\nSara thinks the only way she can make anyone take any notice of her is to get publicity. She gets help from a journalist and photographer Richard Panter. She stands at Checkpoint Charlie, the place in the middle of Berlin, where foreigners could cross over from one side of the divided city to the other. She wears a big placard which says: “Give my children back to me!”. Richard takes photographs and gets newspapers all over the world to print them. The GDR government does not like this at all. They send agents to threaten her. She is even attacked and wounded in the street, and told that next time she will be killed if she carries on her campaign. Even the FRG (West German) ask her to stop her campaign, because it is bad for international relations.\n\nHowever, Sara does not stop. She manages to contact her children by smuggling letters and messages on cassettes. The girls are really cheered up and think they will soon be able to join their mother in the West. But no permission is given.\n\nSara travels to a conference in Helsinki where she wants to speak to Hans-Dietrich Genscher, the West German Minister for Foreign Affairs (the movie is slightly different here to what really happened). She is given a lift in a car by men who say they are taking her to Genscher, but they are Stasi agents who take her to a forest to murder her, but she manages to escape.\n\nHer two daughters are told that their mother has been killed in a car crash, but this is a lie. The children happen to see their mother demonstrating on a television news report. They realize she is still alive. Her foster parents find a recording on a cassette on which the girls have criticized the GDR government. They are harshly punished.\n\nIn the end their foster mother feels sorry for them and helps to persuade the GDR government to let the children go. They are reunited with their mother in West Berlin.\n\n", "id": "221271", "title": "Die Frau vom Checkpoint Charlie"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221277", "text": "Mulde\n\nThe Mulde is a river in Central Germany. It is formed when the \"Zwickauer Mulde\" and the \"Freiberger Mulde\" coming from the Erzgebirge meet near Colditz. It runs on through the Saxon towns Grimma, Wurzen and Eilenburg to Dessau in Saxony-Anhalt. The river flows three kilometers north of Dessau into the Elbe River.\n\nThe Mulde has a length of 124 kilometers and is one of the fastest rivers in Central Europe. It is not navigable.\n", "id": "221277", "title": "Mulde"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221280", "text": "Grimma\n\nGrimma is a town on the banks of the river Mulde in northwestern Saxony, Germany. It is about southeast of the city of Leipzig. \n\n", "id": "221280", "title": "Grimma"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221281", "text": "Wurzen\n\nWurzen is a town on the banks of the river Mulde in north-western Saxony, Germany, about 20 kilometers east of the city of Leipzig. \n\n", "id": "221281", "title": "Wurzen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221287", "text": "Ai Takahashi\n\nHer first appearance on TV was in 1999, on a children's talent show, where she won a prize.\n\nShe joined Morning Musume in 2001 with Asami Konno, Makoto Ogawa and Risa Niigaki. Her first single was \"Mr. Moonlight ~Ai no BIG BAND~\" which she sang with the group. In 2002 she launched her first photobook alone and joined the group Mini Moni. She also acted in a movie, \"MiniMoni Ja Movie: Okashina Daibouken\". She was called \"Takkity\" by her fans because her dress in the movie was like a black cat.\n\nIn 2003 she replaced Mari Yaguchi in the group Mini Moni. In 2007 she became leader of the group Morning Musume after Miki Fujimoto left the team. In 2008 she joined a new group, High King, created to promote the musical: \"Cinderella the Musical\". Takahashi plays the main character in this new group and Reina Tanaka is the leader.\n\nIn 2009 she was made the leader of the group Hello!Project. She is the only member of Morning Musume that plays a character in a dorama (Japanese drama).\n\n", "id": "221287", "title": "Ai Takahashi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221291", "text": "Diffusion\n\nDiffusion is a physical process where molecules of a material move from an area of high concentration (where there are many molecules) to an area of low concentration (where there are fewer molecules). \n\nDiffusion usually happens in a solution in gas or in a liquid. It is possible to see diffusion happening when two liquids are mixed in a transparent container. \nIt describes the constant movement of particles in all liquids and gases. These particles move in all directions bumping into each other. Diffusion can only work with gases and liquids.\nHere are some examples of diffusion:\n\nMolecules tend to move from places of high concentration to places of low concentration, just by moving randomly. For example, there is more oxygen in a lung than there is oxygen in the blood so oxygen molecules will tend to move into the blood. Similarly, there is more carbon dioxide molecules in the blood than in the lung so carbon dioxide molecules will tend to move into the lung. It happens in cell biology, where small molecules simply diffuse through the cell membrane, but larger molecules only get through by using energy: see active transport.\n\nThe random movement of fluid molecules makes them spread out until a boundary stops them.\n\n", "id": "221291", "title": "Diffusion"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221298", "text": "Bart Gets Hit by a Car\n\n\"Bart Gets Hit by a Car\" is the tenth episode of \"The Simpsons\" second season. The episode first started on January 10, 1991.\n\nThis episode has the first appearance of \"Dr. Nick Riviera\", \"Lionel Hutz\", and the \"Blue-Haired Lawyer\". Also, guest star Phil Hartman and the show's then-script Doris Grau made their first episode in the show.\n", "id": "221298", "title": "Bart Gets Hit by a Car"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221318", "text": "One Fish, Two Fish, Blowfish, Blue Fish\n\n\"One Fish, Two Fish, Blowfish, Blue Fish\" is the eleventh episode of The Simpsons second season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on January 24, 1991. In this episode, Homer eats a poisonous fugu fish at a sushi restaurant, and is told that he has only twenty-four hours left to live. He accepts his and makes a list of all the things he wants to do before he dies. Some of the things he wanted to do include: Hanging out with Grandpa. \n", "id": "221318", "title": "One Fish, Two Fish, Blowfish, Blue Fish"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221342", "text": "Blythe Intaglios\n\nThe Blythe Intaglios are a group of figures on the ground near Blythe, California. They are similar to the Nazca Lines in Peru. They can be seen well only from high up. One of the figures is Mustamho, a creator deity.\n\nThe Blythe Intaglios are on the National Register of Historic Places. They are also a California Historical Landmark.\n", "id": "221342", "title": "Blythe Intaglios"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221344", "text": "The Way We Was\n\n\"The Way We Was\" is the twelfth episode of \"The Simpsons\" second season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on January 31, 1991. In this episode, Marge tells the story of how she and Homer first met and fell in love. Going back to 1974, we see how Homer falls in love with Marge in high school and tries to get close to her by her as his French tutor. After several hours of verb conjugation, Marge falls for Homer too, only to become mad when he says that he is not a French student. Marge rejects Homer's to the prom and goes with \"Artie Ziff\". Artie turns out to be a bad date and Marge realizes that it is Homer she really wants.\n", "id": "221344", "title": "The Way We Was"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221347", "text": "Homer vs. Lisa and the 8th Commandment\n\n\"Homer vs. Lisa and the 8th Commandment\" is the thirteenth episode of the second season of \"The Simpsons\". It first aired on February 7, 1991. In this episode, Homer gets an illegal cable hook-up. despite their enjoyment of the new channels, Lisa becomes that they are stealing cable. Lisa protests by no longer watching television. Meanwhile, Homer invites his friends over to watch a boxing match, but Lisa's protest gets to him. He decides not to watch the fight and cuts the cable. It is one of a number of \"The Simpsons\" episodes that have won an Emmy.\n", "id": "221347", "title": "Homer vs. Lisa and the 8th Commandment"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221349", "text": "Principal Charming\n\n\"Principal Charming\" is the fourteenth episode of the second season of \"The Simpsons\". It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on February 14, 1991. In this episode, Marge's sister \"Selma\" is looking for a husband, so Marge tells Homer to help her find one. Things go wrong, however, when Homer invites \"Principal Skinner\" over for dinner and Skinner instead falls for Selma's twin sister Patty.\n", "id": "221349", "title": "Principal Charming"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221351", "text": "Oh Brother, Where Art Thou?\n\n\"Oh Brother, Where Art Thou?\" is the fifteenth episode of The Simpsons second season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on February 21, 1991. In this episode, Grampa confesses that Homer has a half-brother, who Homer quickly tries to track down. He eventually finds that his brother is \"Herbert Powell\", the head of a car maker. Herb quickly starts to bond with Bart and Lisa, and he invites Homer to design his own car. Homer's car design turns out to be bad, which causes Herb to become bankrupt.\n", "id": "221351", "title": "Oh Brother, Where Art Thou?"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221360", "text": "Bart's Dog Gets an F\n\n\"Bart's Dog Gets an F\" is the sixteenth episode of \"The Simpsons\" second season. It was first shown on the Fox Broadcasting network in the United States on March 7, 1991. \n\nIn this episode, the Simpson family's dog, \"Santa's Little Helper\", chews on Homer's new shoes. The dog also destroys a prized family treasure and eats Homer's cookie. The family gets angry at the dog. As a result, Bart is forced to train \"Santa's Little Helper\" at an obedience school so that the family will not give him away. At first, the dog acts very badly. At the last minute, he passes the test.\n", "id": "221360", "title": "Bart's Dog Gets an F"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221362", "text": "Thought disorder\n\nIn psychiatry the term thought disorder or formal thought disorder refers to a condition where people have problems with consistent and straight thinking leading to abnormalities e.g. with spoken and written language. The people who have this condition use language that is disordered, or sometimes hard to follow. According to the psychiatrists, language is a reflection of thought processes. People who have difficulty speaking therefore often also have difficulty thinking. \n\nThought disorder is considered to be a symptom of psychotic mental illness, but there can also be other causes for it.\n\nThe condition it describes is permanent. It affects speech and writing. Those affected may speak all the time, or they may show patterns like switching ideas inside a sentence. They may also use different words that do not fit together at all; this is known as 'word salad'. \n\nEugen Bleuler, who named schizophrenia, held that its defining characteristic was a disorder of the thinking process. However, although the delusions and hallucinations of psychosis could also be considered as disorders of thought, the term \"formal thought disorder\" applies specifically to the presumed disruption in the flow of conscious verbal thought that is inferred from spoken language. This is typically what is referred to when the strictly less accurate, more commonly used but abbreviated term, 'thought disorder', is used.\n", "id": "221362", "title": "Thought disorder"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221364", "text": "Minoru Suganuma\n\nMinoru Suganuma (born 16 May 1985) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Kashiwa Reysol.\n\n143||32||10||2||19||3||172||37\n0||0||||||||||0||0\n143||32||10||2||19||3||172||37\n", "id": "221364", "title": "Minoru Suganuma"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221365", "text": "Shaun Maloney\n\nShaun Maloney (born 24 January 1983) is a Scottish football player. He plays for Celtic and Scotland national team.\n\n125||30\n30||5\n155||35\n\n!Total||17||1\n", "id": "221365", "title": "Shaun Maloney"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221366", "text": "Johan Mjällby\n\nJohan Mjällby (born 9 February 1971) is a former Swedish football player. He has played for Sweden national team.\n\n145||8\n144||13\n3||0\n292||21\n\n!Total||49||4\n", "id": "221366", "title": "Johan Mjällby"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221367", "text": "Bogdan Lobonţ\n\nBogdan Lobonţ (born 18 January 1978) is a Romanian football player. He plays for Roma and Romania national team.\n\n214||0\n49||0\n17||0\n280||0\n\n!Total||74||0\n", "id": "221367", "title": "Bogdan Lobonţ"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221368", "text": "Kim Källström\n\nKim Källström (born 24 August 1982) is a Swedish football player. He plays for Spartak Moscow and Sweden national team.\n\n117||40||15||6||colspan=\"2\"|-||8||2||140||48\n174||30||20||1||8||1||24||5||226||37\n291||70||35||7||8||1||32||7||366||85\n\n!Total||71||13\n", "id": "221368", "title": "Kim Källström"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221369", "text": "Teemu Tainio\n\nTeemu Tainio (born 27 November 1979) is a Finnish football player. He plays for Ajax and Finland national team.\n\n46||14||||||||||4||0||50||14\n150||14||12||2||11||1||25||2||198||19\n88||3||8||0||7||1||9||0||112||4\n286||31||21||2||18||2||40||2||365||37\n\n!Total||51||6\n", "id": "221369", "title": "Teemu Tainio"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221370", "text": "Martin Jol\n\nMartin Jol (born 16 January 1956) is a Dutch football player turned manager. He has played for Netherlands national team.\n\n330||27\n9||0\n79||4\n418||31\n\n!Total||3||0\n", "id": "221370", "title": "Martin Jol"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221371", "text": "Didier Zokora\n\nDidier Zokora (born 14 December 1980) is a Côte d'Ivoire football player. He plays for Semen Padang FC and Côte d'Ivoire national team.\n\n123||2\n66||0\n88||0\n0||0\n277||2\n\n!Total||75||1\n", "id": "221371", "title": "Didier Zokora"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221372", "text": "Julio César Pinheiro\n\nJulio César Pinheiro (born 22 August 1976) is a Brazilian football player.\n\n243||36\n22||0\n0||0\n5||0\n270||36\n", "id": "221372", "title": "Julio César Pinheiro"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221377", "text": "Amargasaurus\n\nAmargasaurus was a sauropod from the early Cretaceous period. It grew to 10 meters (33 feet) length, which was relatively small for a sauropod. It was a quadrupedal herbivore with a long, low skull on the end of a long neck, much like its relative \"Dicraeosaurus\". \n\n\"Amargasaurus\" was found in La Amarga, a canyon in Neuquén Province, Argentina. \n\n\"Amargasaurus\" had two tall rows of spines on top of its backbone along the neck and back. The function of the spines is not known. They may have operated as a defence from theropod attack from above. Another idea is that they supported a sail-like structure.\n\nThe neural spines were bifurcated along their entire length, forming a double row. They were circular in cross section and tapered towards their tips. The tallest spines could be found on the middle part of the neck, where they reached 60 cm on the 8th cervical. On the neck, they were bowed backwards, projecting above the adjacent vertebra. Greatly elongated spines continue along the last two dorsal vertebrae, the hip and foremost tail. However, in these regions the spines were not bifurcated but flared into a paddle-shaped upper end.\n", "id": "221377", "title": "Amargasaurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221378", "text": "Dunkirk evacuation\n\nThe Dunkirk evacuation sometimes called Operation Dynamo or The Miracle of Dunkirk was a British mission to rescue Allied soldiers from the beaches of Dunkirk France, from 26 May to 4 June 1940. Over 300,000 Allied soldiers were trapped in Dunkirk by the German army after the Battle of Dunkirk. For some reason, the German commanders did not order an attack against the surrounded city. Winston Churchill then ordered all ships and boats available to head for Dunkirk to pick up the soldiers.\n\nOver 900 ships participated in the evacuation, consisting mostly of fishing and pleasure boats, although some larger ships also took part. Originally, their intention was to pick up 45,000 British soldiers, and it was anticipated the Germans would try to stop them. On the first day, only 7,000 soldiers were picked up from the harbour, but none from the beach. On the second day, 17,000 soldiers were evacuated including some from the beaches. On the third day, 47,000 soldiers were successfully rescued followed by 54,000 on day four, including the first French soldiers. Evacuation reached its peak on days five and six, when over 60,000 Allied soldiers escaped. By day seven, nearly all the British had left, but the boats continued to pick up 26,000 soldiers a day (nearly all French). Evacuation ended after nine days, by which time 200,000 British soldiers and 140,000 French soldiers had escaped to Great Britain.\n\nThe battle of Dunkirk was a great defeat for the British and Allied forces, but most of the British Army in France and part of the French Army escaped to fight again.\n", "id": "221378", "title": "Dunkirk evacuation"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221381", "text": "Supersaurus\n\nSupersaurus was a sauropod dinosaur, a relative of \"Diplodocus\". It was found in the Upper Jurassic Morrison Formation of Colorado in 1972. \n\nIn most respects, \"Supersaurus\" is similar in to \"Apatosaurus\", but it is less robustly built. It has elongated cervical vertebrae, resulting in one of the longest known sauropod necks. It was up to 33 to 34 meters (108 to 112 ft) in length, and a weight of 35 to 40 tons. \n\nA new and much more complete specimen of \"Supersaurus\", nicknamed 'Jimbo', WDC DMJ-021, was found in Converse County, Wyoming in 1996. It is currently being prepared and was described in 2007. Its bones are held at the Wyoming Dinosaur Center. \n", "id": "221381", "title": "Supersaurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221386", "text": "André Candançam Pinto\n\nAndré Candançam Pinto (born 14 December 1978) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Paços Ferreira.\n\n7||0\n89||36\n42||18\n138||54\n", "id": "221386", "title": "André Candançam Pinto"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221387", "text": "Rafael dos Santos Silva\n\nRafael dos Santos Silva (born 27 August 1982) is a Brazilian football player.\n\n5||0\n41||10\n16||1\n62||11\n", "id": "221387", "title": "Rafael dos Santos Silva"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221388", "text": "Edmilson Alves\n\nEdmilson Alves (born 17 February 1976) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Vissel Kobe.\n\n127||11||8||0||14||3||149||14\n31||2||||||||||31||2\n158||13||8||0||14||3||180||16\n", "id": "221388", "title": "Edmilson Alves"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221389", "text": "Túlio Lustosa Seixas Pinheiro\n\nTúlio Lustosa Seixas Pinheiro (born 25 April 1976) is a Brazilian football player. He plays for Grêmio.\n\n222||15||||||||||222||15\n44||3||4||0||6||0||54||3\n266||18||4||0||6||0||276||18\n", "id": "221389", "title": "Túlio Lustosa Seixas Pinheiro"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221390", "text": "Choi Moon-Sik\n\nChoi Moon-Sik (born 6 January 1971) is a former South Korean football player. He has played for Korea Republic national team.\n\n265||47\n13||2\n278||49\n\n!Total||38||9\n", "id": "221390", "title": "Choi Moon-Sik"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221391", "text": "Magnum Rafael Farias Tavares\n\nMagnum Rafael Farias Tavares (born 24 March 1982) is a Brazilian football player.\n\n70||7||||||||||||||70||7\n86||23||9||0||12||1||15||4||122||28\n156||30||9||0||12||1||15||4||192||35\n\n", "id": "221391", "title": "Magnum Rafael Farias Tavares"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221392", "text": "Edinho Baiano\n\nEdinho Baiano (born 27 July 1967) is a former Brazilian football player.\n\n24||0||1||0||6||1||31||1\n24||0||1||0||6||1||31||1\n", "id": "221392", "title": "Edinho Baiano"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221393", "text": "Daniel da Silva\n\nDaniel da Silva (born 27 May 1973) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.\n\n134||13\n5||0\n139||13\n\n!Total||1||0\n", "id": "221393", "title": "Daniel da Silva"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221394", "text": "Darko Kovačević\n\nDarko Kovačević (born 18 November 1973) is a former Serbian football player. He has played for Serbia national team.\n\n110||62\n16||4\n260||91\n54||11\n41||21\n481||189\n\n!Total||58||9\n", "id": "221394", "title": "Darko Kovačević"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221395", "text": "Geílson de Carvalho Soares\n\nGeílson de Carvalho Soares (born 10 April 1984) is a Brazilian football player.\n\n29||10\n2||0\n31||10\n", "id": "221395", "title": "Geílson de Carvalho Soares"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221396", "text": "Gonzalo Colsa\n\nGonzalo Colsa (born 11 May 1979) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Racing Santander.\n\n284||23\n284||23\n", "id": "221396", "title": "Gonzalo Colsa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221397", "text": "Gonzalo Javier Rodríguez\n\nGonzalo Javier Rodríguez (born 10 April 1984) is an Argentinae football player. He plays for Villarreal.\n\n57||4\n114||4\n171||8\n\n!Total||6||1\n", "id": "221397", "title": "Gonzalo Javier Rodríguez"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221398", "text": "Juan Valera Espín\n\nJuan Valera Espín (born 21 December 1984) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Atlético Madrid.\n\n106||7\n106||7\n", "id": "221398", "title": "Juan Valera Espín"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221399", "text": "Jordi Cruyff\n\nJordi Cruyff (born 9 February 1974) is a Dutch football player turned manager. He played for Netherlands national team. He is the son of Johan Cruijff.\n\n166||23\n34||8\n28||0\n0||0\n228||31\n\n!Total||9||1\n", "id": "221399", "title": "Jordi Cruyff"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221400", "text": "Piotr Świerczewski\n\nPiotr Świerczewski (born 8 April 1972) is a Polish football player. He has played for Poland national team.\n\n229||12\n277||15\n12||2\n1||0\n519||29\n\n!Total||70||1\n", "id": "221400", "title": "Piotr Świerczewski"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221401", "text": "José Ilson dos Santos\n\nJosé Ilson dos Santos (born 28 November 1975) is a Brazilian football player.\n\n14||3||1||0||0||0||15||3\n14||3||1||0||0||0||15||3\n", "id": "221401", "title": "José Ilson dos Santos"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221402", "text": "Mladen Mladenović\n\nMladen Mladenović (born 13 September 1964) is a former Croatian football player. He has played for Croatia national team.\n\n20||11||1||1||2||0||23||12\n20||11||1||1||2||0||23||12\n\n!Total||19||3\n", "id": "221402", "title": "Mladen Mladenović"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221403", "text": "Nihat Kahveci\n\nNihat Kahveci (born 23 November 1979) is a Turkish football player. He plays for Beşiktaş and Turkey national team.\n\n115||27||6||1||2||2||123||30\n196||75||7||3||14||4||217||82\n311||102||13||4||16||6||340||112\n\n!Total||64||17\n", "id": "221403", "title": "Nihat Kahveci"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221404", "text": "Bernardo Romeo\n\nBernardo Romeo (born 10 September 1977) is an Argentine football player. He plays for San Lorenzo Almagro.\n\n171||74\n77||35\n42||6\n290||115\n\n!Total||4||1\n", "id": "221404", "title": "Bernardo Romeo"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221405", "text": "Mauricio Pellegrino\n\nMauricio Pellegrino (born 5 October 1971) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.\n\n188||11\n174||5\n12||0\n374||16\n\n!Total||3||0\n", "id": "221405", "title": "Mauricio Pellegrino"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221406", "text": "Martín Demichelis\n\nMartín Demichelis (born 20 December 1980) is an Argentine football player. He plays for Manchester City and Argentina national team. \n\n52||1||||||||||52||1\n147||11||19||0||37||2||203||13\n199||12||19||0||37||2||255||14\n\n!Total||24||1\n", "id": "221406", "title": "Martín Demichelis"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221407", "text": "Francisco Fernández\n\nFrancisco Javier Fernández Torrejón (born 19 August 1975) is a former Chilean football player.\n\n20||0\n20||0\n", "id": "221407", "title": "Francisco Fernández"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221408", "text": "Kim Grant\n\nKim Grant (born 25 September 1972) is a former Ghanaian football player. He has played for Ghana national team.\n\n263||43\n19||3\n14||6\n7||3\n0||0\n27||13\n330||68\n\n!Total||7||1\n", "id": "221408", "title": "Kim Grant"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221409", "text": "Kim Do-Keun\n\nKim Do-Keun (born 2 March 1972) is a South Koreanprofessional athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.\n\n185||23||8||0||56||11||249||34\n27||0||2||0||6||1||35||1\n202||23||10||0||62||12||284||35\n\n!Total||22||1\n", "id": "221409", "title": "Kim Do-Keun"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221410", "text": "Claude Dambury\n\nClaude Dambury (born 30 July 1971) is a former French football player.\n\n230||7||||||||||230||7\n82||4||3||0||6||0||91||4\n312||11||3||0||6||0||321||11\n", "id": "221410", "title": "Claude Dambury"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221411", "text": "Wágner Pires de Almeida\n\nWágner Pires de Almeida (born 27 December 1973) is a Brazilian football player.\n\n8||0\n8||0\n", "id": "221411", "title": "Wágner Pires de Almeida"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221412", "text": "João Carlos dos Santos\n\nJoão Carlos dos Santos (born 10 September 1972) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for Brazil national team.\n\n85||10||||||||||85||10\n53||5||4||0||1||0||58||5\n138||15||4||0||1||0||143||15\n\n!Total||10||1\n", "id": "221412", "title": "João Carlos dos Santos"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221413", "text": "Sérgio Manoel\n\nSérgio Manoel (born 2 March 1973) is a Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazilian national team.\n\n329||34\n33||6\n4||0\n366||40\n\n!Total||4||0\n", "id": "221413", "title": "Sérgio Manoel"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221415", "text": "Suzi Quatro\n\nSuzi Quatro (June 3, 1950) is an American rock musician, said by some people to be the \"Godmother of Rock\". She has sold more than 50 million records. She usually wore black leather clothes.\n\nQuatro was born in Detroit, Michigan. She started playing bass guitar and formed a girl band, Pleasure Seekers, with her sisters when she was only 14 years old. She went to Britain in 1971 with record producer Mickie Most, who also worked with The Animals, Lulu, and Donovan. Her first hit single was \"Can the Can\" which went to number one on the sales charts in Europe and Australia. Other big hits were \"Devil Gate Drive\" (1974), \"If You Can't Give Me Love\" (1978) and \"Stumblin' In\" (1978).\n\nShe married guitar player, Len Tuckey, in 1976 but divorced him in 1992. She is now married to a German concert promoter, Rainer Haas. She has also acted on TV with guest roles in Happy Days, Minder, Absolutely Fabulous, and Midsomer Murders. She was the voice of Rio in the 2006 Bob the Builder movie, \"Built To Be Wild\". She also had a weekly radio show on BBC2, called \"Wake Up Little Suzi\".\n", "id": "221415", "title": "Suzi Quatro"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221421", "text": "Air France Flight 447\n\nAir France Flight 447 was a scheduled commercial flight from Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, to Paris, France. The aircraft used was an Airbus A330 jet. On June 1, 2009, the A330 crashed into the Atlantic Ocean, three hours and 30 minutes into the flight, killing all 228 people on board. Air France Flight 447 is currently the deadliest plane crash in Air France's history. It is the deadliest plane crash in the 21st century since the crash of American Airlines Flight 587, which occurred on November 12, 2001.\n\nF-GZCP was an Airbus A330-203.It has two General Electric CF6-80E1A3 engines.It was delivered new from Airbus, after having its first flight on 25th February 2005, and at the time of accident, it has flown for 18870 hours, taking off and landing 2644 times.\n\nAs the flight was more than 10 hours long, there were 3 crew operating the airplane, so that each of them can take a break during the flight. The flight's captain is Marc Dubois, while the co-pilots are Pierre-Cédric Bonin and David Robert. There were 9 cabin crew onboard and 216 passengers.\n\nAir France Flight 447 took off from Rio de Janeiro International Airport for the flight to Paris at 7.29 p.m. Brazilian time. In the first part of the flight, the captain was in the left seat, while first officer Bonin was in the right seat. The third pilot, Robert, was resting in the small cabin behind the cockpit. The plane cruised at FL350, or 35,000 feet.\n\nFrom 1.48 a.m. onwards, the flight went out of radar coverage. From then on ATC can no longer track the flight. At 1.55 a.m., the captain woke Robert up and asked Robert to take his place.\n\nThen, at 2.08 a.m. the plane turned left due to turbulence. Just 2 minutes later, both the autopilot and the auto thrust switches off. Bonin, in response, said,\"I have control.\" before raising the plane's nose up and causing the plane to climb. Robert noticed this and asked Bonin to descend. Bonin then put the nose down and the plane no longer climbed as fast as how it did previously. However, the plane was still climbing.\n\nAt about 2.11 a.m and 6 seconds, the plane reached the maximum altitude. The angle of attack was about 16 degrees. The plane stalled and began to descend. Throughout the whole descent, the angle of attack remained above 35 degrees when valid. The plane most likely crashed at 2.14 a.m. and 28 seconds, when all the recordings stopped.\n\nAt 2:20 a.m., the Air Traffic Controller at DAKAR failed to contact Air France Flight 447, which was supposed to be in DAKAR airspace already. The controller then contacted Air France, who tried to contact Flight 447, but failed. At that time, people thought that the plane had \"disappeared\".Ships and planes then searched the area near the last-known position of Flight 447, and by 6th June, the first bodies have been found. The plane was confirmed to have crashed.\n\nAs the search for survivors end, the search for the plane's recorders then began. Underwater Vehicles are used to detect the recorders' signals that they give out for 30 days.However, at the end of the 30 days, there was not a sign of the recorders. Other searches in 2009 and 2010 also found nothing.\n\nThen, in 2011, the search for recorders finally ended when an underwater vehicle found the Flight Data Recorder and Cockpit Voice Recorder on 26th April and 2nd May respectively.The recorders are sent to BEA(Bureau d'Enquêtes et d'Analyses pour la Sécurité de l'Aviation Civile, Bureau of Enquiry and Analysis for Civil Aviation Safety)'s headquarters for analysis and arrived on 12th May.\n\nWhen the pitot tubes were blocked by ice crystals, the automatic controls of the plane, including autopilot and autothrust, switches off by itself. This had surprised the pilots, even though this was a well known phenomenon. The pilots likely never understood that the only problem they had was that the airspeed was incorrect.\n\nThe plane began to climb. During the whole climb to 38,000 feet, the crew failed to understand the situation. Even when the plane stalled and the stall warning sounded, the crew likely did not understand the stall situation they were in and so never tried to put the nose down and recover the plane from the stall. The plane remained stalled until impact with water.\n\nRight after the crash, Air France sped up the replacement of pitot tubes. By June 11, 2009, all the pitot tubes were changed to ones that will not freeze up when ice crystals hit them.\n\nThe flight number was changed to AF 445 after the crash and is still flown by Airbus A330-200s.\n\nThere are some documentaries about the crash, including:\n\n", "id": "221421", "title": "Air France Flight 447"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221438", "text": "Stolon\n\nStolon is a term used often in botany. It describes a horizontal stem running across or just under the ground. A runner is a stolon which runs on the ground; a rhizome is the same thing, but running underground.\n\nPlants with stolons or stolon-like rhizomes are called \"stoloniferous\". A stolon is a plant propagation strategy. At nodes, rootlets are put down and new stems are put up. All these plant forms are clones from a single genetic individual.\n", "id": "221438", "title": "Stolon"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221452", "text": "Old Money\n\n\"Old Money\" is the seventeenth episode of The Simpsons second season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on March 28, 1991. In this episode, Grampa's new girlfriend at the \"Retirement Castle\" dies and leaves him with $106,000. He heads for a casino to spend the money, but is stopped by Homer, so he decides to spend the money on the retirement home instead.\n", "id": "221452", "title": "Old Money"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221454", "text": "Peter Houston\n\nPeter Houston (born 19 July 1958 in Baillieston) is a former Scottish footballer. He played as a full-back. He is currently caretaker manager at Dundee United. He gained that post after Craig Levein's depature for coach of the Scotland international team.\n", "id": "221454", "title": "Peter Houston"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221458", "text": "Pink salon\n\nA ', or ' is a place for sex in Japan that specializes in oral sex. The client is served soft drinks and a young girl performs fellatio on him in a small room or booth. These places are very popular for young men because they are very cheap and the service is fast.\n\nThis kind of place started in the early 1960s and is an improved version of the very popular Kyaba-Kura (cabaret clubs). In these clubs a client pays to talk and drink with a girl, and in night salons a men can masturbate in front of a girl, and ejaculate into either her hands or mouth, this is all done without touching the client.\n\nProstitution in Japan is strictly prohibited. But if there is no penetration in the encounter it is not considered prostitution. All these kinds of places (for sex) are in special zones in each city and are often hidden under a false or cover identities like restaurants, shops or sex shops. They can be easier to spot at night when all other businesses are closed, as these ones are open.\n\nThis kind of sex place is usually in specific zones like entertainment areas or Red-light districts. Using a false name they can also be in almost every part of the city and are usually announced at the JR stations.\n\nThe inside of a pink salon is usually dark, with quiet music. At the entrance customers must disinfect their hands and specially their nails if they are long. Most salons only allow entry to Japanese people and forbid entry to strangers. There are also snacks and beer free of charge. Alcoholic beverages must be paid for.\n\nThe system of a pink salon is simple. Customers usually pay for 30–45 minutes of service, however the price depends on the time of the service. It usually costs around 2000-4000 Yen in the morning and 4000-12000 Yen at nights. The customer sits in a single sofa and a girl comes and provides the customer with service. The types of service include: genital touching, fellatio, footjob and cunnilingus. Customers do not need to wear a condom and it is common that they ejaculate in the girl's mouth.\n\nIt is also common that the fellatio is done by more than one girl, changing every 15 minutes (making a total of three girls in a 45 minute period).\n", "id": "221458", "title": "Pink salon"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221459", "text": "Brush with Greatness\n\n\"Brush with Greatness\" is the eighteenth episode of \"The Simpsons\" second season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on April 11, 1991. In this episode, Marge revives her high school-era liking in painting by enrolling in an art class after getting encouraged by Lisa. When she wins first prize in a local art competition for a painted picture of Homer on the couch in his underwear, Mr. Burns commissions her to paint a picture of him. Meanwhile, Homer is determined to lose weight after becoming stuck in a water slide at an amusement park.\n", "id": "221459", "title": "Brush with Greatness"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221462", "text": "Lisa's Substitute\n\n\"Lisa's Substitute\" is the nineteenth episode of The Simpsons second season. It first started on Fox in the United States on April 25, 1991. In this episode, Lisa's teacher Miss Hoover gets Lyme disease, so substitute teacher \"Mr. Bergstrom\" takes over the class. Lisa finds Mr. Bergstrom's teaching methods inspiring and finds a whole new love for learning. When Miss Hoover returns to class, Lisa is sad to lose her most positive adult role model. Eventually, she knows that while Mr. Bergstrom was one of a kind, she can find role models in other people, like her father Homer. Meanwhile, Bart runs for class president against \"Martin.\"\n", "id": "221462", "title": "Lisa's Substitute"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221465", "text": "The War of the Simpsons\n\n\"The War of the Simpsons\" is the twentieth episode of \"The Simpsons\" second season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on May 2, 1991. In this episode, Homer gets drunk at a party and embarrasses his wife Marge, so she decides to sign them up for a \"marriage counseling retreat.\" Homer finds out that the retreat will be held near a lake and packs his fishing stuff, despite Marge telling him that all they will be doing is their differences. At the lake the next morning, Homer tries to sneak away to go fishing, but Marge catches him and he takes a walk instead. On the dock, Homer finds an abandoned fishing pole and a small rowboat. Homer rows out on the lake and catches his fish, but when he sees an upset Marge is looking at him, he quickly lets it go to show his love for her.\n", "id": "221465", "title": "The War of the Simpsons"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221473", "text": "Three Men and a Comic Book\n\n\"Three Men and a Comic Book\" is the twenty-first episode of the second season of \"The Simpsons\". It first started on the Fox network in the United States on May 9, 1991. In this episode, Bart catches a quick look of the original issue of \"Radioactive Man\" for sale at a comic book convention. So Bart, Martin, and Milhouse combine their money to buy the valuable comic book, only to lose it because to their selfishness and being unable to share.\n", "id": "221473", "title": "Three Men and a Comic Book"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221475", "text": "Blood Feud (The Simpsons)\n\n\"Blood Feud\" is the twenty-second and last episode of the second season of \"The Simpsons\". It was first shown on the Fox network in the United States on July 11, 1991. In this episode, Mr. Burns falls ill and badly needs a blood transfusion. Homer learns Bart has Burns's rare blood type and wants his son to donate some, promising Bart that they will be handsomely rewarded. However, after getting the blood, all Burns does is send the family a card. Homer, who is mad, writes a rude reply, but Marge tells him at the last minute not to send it, although Bart mails it anyway.\n", "id": "221475", "title": "Blood Feud (The Simpsons)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221482", "text": "Foster care\n\nFoster care is a term used to describe when a child is living and looked after by a family which is not their own. The child may be put into foster care because their own parents are not able to look after them. There may be several reasons why this may happen. The parents may be very ill or unable to control their own lives, perhaps because of alcoholism or drug addiction. They may be in prison or the children may be threatened with violence in their own home. They are put into foster care so that they are safe and can live a more normal life in someone else's home.\n\nWhen a child is fostered there has to be an inconsequential legal agreement. The person who looks after them instead of their own parents is called a “foster parent”. The child is made a “ward” of court, which means that power is given through the court of law to the foster parent to look after them. The foster parent(s) is “ in loco parentis”, meaning: “in the place of the parent”. They can make decisions about the child because the real parent(s) are not able to do this.\n\nThe laws about fostering children are, of course, not the same in different countries around the world.\n\nIn most Western countries fostering can sometimes be a long-term arrangement, perhaps until the child has become an adult. However, in many cases the child may be able to return to their own family later if their family life has changed.\n\nFoster parents are paid by the state to look after the children.\n\nAdoption is different to foster care. Adoption is taking into one's family (a child of other parents), especially by a formal legal act.\n\nFosterage is not the same as foster care. Some societies have arrangements whereby children are brought up in other families. This is a social matter, not a legal matter. This can be described as \"fosterage\".\n", "id": "221482", "title": "Foster care"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221487", "text": "Fosterage\n\nFosterage is an arrangement in which a child is brought up with a family that is not their own. It is different from foster care, which is a legal arrangement made for a child's safety. Fosterage can describe many different arrangements according to the society they belong to. In many parts of the world there are societies where the children do not live with their parents. This may be linked to the society's special way of life.\n", "id": "221487", "title": "Fosterage"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221489", "text": "Custody\n\nCustody can refer to:\n\n", "id": "221489", "title": "Custody"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221491", "text": "Child custody\n\nChild custody and guardianship are legal terms which are sometimes used to describe the legal relationship between a parent and his or her child. It includes such things as the right of the parent to make decisions for the child, and the parent's duty to care for the child.\n\nChild custody decisions have to be made in cases such as divorce, or when a child cannot be looked after by either parent and has to be put into foster care or put up for adoption. \n\nIn general: decisions about who will have custody of a child will be taken in such a way as is best for the child.\n\nA child may be given state custody. This may be because the child is in danger when living at home. There may, for example, be violence in the home.\n\nWhen there is a divorce case, a decision will be made about whether the mother or the father has custody of the child. There may be \"joint custody\", which means that both parents have custody over the child.\n\nPhysical custody means: who looks after the child from day to day. It is about where a child will live. \n\nLegal custody means: having the power to make decisions about the child, e.g. where he or she goes to school etc.\n\nIf a child lives with one parent, that parent has \"sole physical custody\". He or she is the \"custodial parent\". The other parent is the \"non-custodial parent\", but they may have the right to visit the child.\n\nThe laws about child custody will vary from one country to another.\n\n", "id": "221491", "title": "Child custody"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221503", "text": "Tyrrhenian Sea\n\nThe Tyrrhenian Sea () is part of the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nThe sea touches the borders of these regions: Corsica and Sardinia (west), Tuscany, Lazio, Campania, Basilicata, and Calabria (east), and Sicily (south).\n\nIts name derives from the Greek name for the Etruscans.\n", "id": "221503", "title": "Tyrrhenian Sea"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221504", "text": "Pescia\n\nPescia is a city in Tuscany, Italy. It is in a central zone between the cities Lucca and Florence.\n\n\nEconomic activities of the city are about flowers and paper.\n\n", "id": "221504", "title": "Pescia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221515", "text": "Paul Stanley\n\nPaul Stanley (born January 20, 1952 in is an American hard rock guitarist and singer for hard rock band Kiss.\n\nBorn in Manhattan, New York City, U.S., on January 20, 1952 in a family dedicated to Jewish jewelry. He moved to Queens, New York City in 1960. His father was part of the Parsons Junior High School \"with the hope that graduates from a good profession, there is outstanding for its artistry, but not liked by his teachers mostly by his haircut. Paul was heavily influenced by The Beatles and the Rolling Stones image and was coming little by little the world of rock'n'roll, something good was that his parents did not put down and entered the \"High School for Music and Arts in the late 60s. He played in his garage Elvis songs with his guitar brand \"Phil\" of poor quality he got for his birthday. After a while playing in a cover band called \"Uncle Joe\", was taken to a gang of older boys to record a single for CBS.\n\nDuring his musical training, he met Chaim Witz to change his name to Eugene Klein, born in Israel, in Haifa, which would later be known as Gene Simmons, with whom he did not get along at first, were sharing tastes and ambitions to be great friends, a friendship that has lasted until today. When he was unemployed played with Gene in the streets for a Big Mac. After it was founded with Stanley Eisen, Gene Simmons and Stephen Coronel, the band Wicked Lester who are about to make a record is broken by both the dismissal of Stephen as the lack of money (initially Gene played guitar, as the remaining members were also guitars, Gene used bass. The band Wicked Lester can not be what Paul and Gene are looking for, so look for members to start a new band revolutionary and unique, so Gene one day reading the Rolling Stone magazine is a bit peculiar announcement and decide to contact Peter Crisscuola (Peter Criss) who is willing to be even dress up as a ridiculous but lovable cat, so now just need a member who would lead guitar, so I arranged an audition and find a crazy, lonely brain called Paul Daniel Frehley (Ace Frehley) and the Kiss finally formed. They released their first album in 1973 called Kiss.\n\n", "id": "221515", "title": "Paul Stanley"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221517", "text": "Stark Raving Dad\n\n\"Stark Raving Dad\" is the season premiere episode of The Simpsons third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on September 19, 1991. In this episode, Homer is made to wear a pink shirt to work one day and is mistaken for a \"free thinking anarchist\" and sent to a \"mental institution.\" He's in a room with a large white man who acts as if he were Michael Jackson.\n", "id": "221517", "title": "Stark Raving Dad"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221519", "text": "Mr. Lisa Goes to Washington\n\n\"Mr. Lisa Goes to Washington\" is the second episode of The Simpsons third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on September 26, 1991. In this episode, Lisa enters in an essay contest to write an essay about \"America's greatness.\" When she successfully wins it, she and the family go to Washington, D.C. where the finals are to be held. Lisa is sad after witnessing a \"bribery scandal\" in the Senate. In her final essay, she and the government system, which leads to the arrest of the \"corrupt congressman\" who accepted the bribe. While Lisa fails to win the contest, her faith in government is back.\n", "id": "221519", "title": "Mr. Lisa Goes to Washington"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221521", "text": "When Flanders Failed\n\n\"When Flanders Failed\" is the third episode of The Simpsons third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on October 3, 1991. In this episode, Homer makes a wish for Ned Flanders's new left-handed store to go out of business. The wish comes true and gets the Flanders family into financial problems. Ned is made to sell his things, and Homer buys many of his things. When finding out that Ned's house is to be repossessed, Homer feels bad and decides to get the store back in business by telling all the left-handed people about it. Meanwhile, Bart takes karate lessons but quits after finding out that it is not as cool as he had thought it to be.\n", "id": "221521", "title": "When Flanders Failed"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221536", "text": "Backward compatibility\n\nBackward compatibility refers to hardware or software that can successfully use interfaces and data from earlier versions of the system or with other systems. For example, Perl, the scripting language, was designed to be backward compatible with awk, an earlier language that Perl was designed to replace.\n\nBackward compatibility is more easily accomplished if the previous versions have been designed to be forward compatible, or extensible, with built-in features such as hooks, plug-in, or an application program interface (API) that allows the addition of new features.\n\nThe term \"backward combatible\" (notice the \"b\") is sometimes used to describe hardware or software that is designed without regard for compatibility with earlier versions, causing the two versions to fight (or combat) each other. In this case, the two versions cannot share data easily and may have features that cause errors or crashes when they are installed on the same computer, often because the computer does not understand which version is being referred to. Even if the earlier version is removed, remaining vestiges of it may cause problems in running the newer version.\n", "id": "221536", "title": "Backward compatibility"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221538", "text": "Leap year starting on Tuesday\n\nThis article describes any leap year starting on Tuesday. Some of these years are listed in the table below.\n", "id": "221538", "title": "Leap year starting on Tuesday"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221548", "text": "Woolly monkey\n\nWoolly monkeys are named for their thick woolly coats. They are New World monkeys, and are found in forests along the Amazon River, and in Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. Unlike other monkeys, woolly monkeys are most likely to be found on the ground. They move much more slowly than other monkeys do, too.\n\nWoolly monkeys eat fruit, flowers, and leaves. They are quite tame, and they live in groups or bands of 10 to 30 monkeys. When frightened, woolly monkeys tend to swing through tree branches and hide. They are friendly and are often seen in the company of other kind of monkeys. When they walk on the ground, they stand straight up, and use their tails for support. They are quite harmless creatures.\n\nAlso, they tend to live in rainforests, especially the Amazonian rainforest.\n", "id": "221548", "title": "Woolly monkey"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221550", "text": "Daisuke Miyakawa\n\n123||51||8||3||0||0||131||54\n123||51||8||3||0||0||131||54\n", "id": "221550", "title": "Daisuke Miyakawa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221551", "text": "Yuya Sano\n\n148||38||14||3||3||0||165||41\n148||38||14||3||3||0||165||41\n", "id": "221551", "title": "Yuya Sano"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221552", "text": "Yoichiro Kakitani\n\nYoichiro Kakitani (born 3 January 1990) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Tokushima Vortis.\n\n79||8||2||0||0||0||81||8\n79||8||2||0||0||0||81||8\n", "id": "221552", "title": "Yoichiro Kakitani"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221553", "text": "Daizo Okitsu\n\nDaizo Okitsu (born 15 June 1974) is a former Japanese football player.\n\n29||1||3||0||4||0||36||1\n29||1||3||0||4||0||36||1\n", "id": "221553", "title": "Daizo Okitsu"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221554", "text": "Kohei Hiramatsu\n\n149||12||26||3||35||3||6||0||216||18\n149||12||26||3||35||3||6||0||216||18\n", "id": "221554", "title": "Kohei Hiramatsu"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221555", "text": "Alexandre Luiz Goulart\n\nAlexandre Luiz Goulart (born 24 July 1976) is a Brazilian football player.\n\n4||0\n124||25\n7||0\n135||25\n", "id": "221555", "title": "Alexandre Luiz Goulart"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221557", "text": "Jaime Rodríguez\n\nJaime Rodríguez (born January 17, 1959) is a former El Salvadoran football player. He has played for the El Salvador national team.\n\n17||4||0||0||4||0||21||4\n17||4||0||0||4||0||21||4\n\n", "id": "221557", "title": "Jaime Rodríguez"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221558", "text": "Naoto Matsuo\n\nNaoto Matsuo (born 10 September 1979) is a Japanese football player. He plays for Shonan Bellmare.\n\n145||6||11||1||30||1||186||8\n145||6||11||1||30||1||186||8\n", "id": "221558", "title": "Naoto Matsuo"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221559", "text": "Leonardo Ponzio\n\nLeonardo Ponzio (born 29 January 1982) is an Argentine football player. He plays for River Plate.\n\n145||10\n132||7\n277||17\n\n!Total||7||0\n", "id": "221559", "title": "Leonardo Ponzio"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221560", "text": "Roberto Néstor Sensini\n\nRoberto Néstor Sensini (born 12 October 1966) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.\n\n74||2\n443||28\n517||30\n\n!Total||60||0\n", "id": "221560", "title": "Roberto Néstor Sensini"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221565", "text": "Frode Johnsen\n\nFrode Johnsen (born 17 March 1974) is a Norwegian football player. He plays for Shimizu S-Pulse.\n\n275||106||23||27||colspan=\"2\"|-||66||18||364||151\n110||44||11||5||16||5||colspan=\"2\"|-||137||54\n385||150||34||32||16||5||66||18||501||205\n\n!Total||34||10\n\n", "id": "221565", "title": "Frode Johnsen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221566", "text": "Lee Eul-Yong\n\nLee Eul-Yong (born 8 September 1975) is a South Korean professional athlete. He is best known as an association football player. He was a member of the Korean national team.\n\n196||11||6||0||56||1||colspan=\"2\"|-||258||12\n74||1||8||0||colspan=\"2\"|-||5||0||87||1\n270||12||14||0||56||1||5||0||345||13\n\n!Total||51||3\n", "id": "221566", "title": "Lee Eul-Yong"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221567", "text": "Rodolfo Arruabarrena\n\nRodolfo Arruabarrena (born 20 July 1975) is a former Argentine football player. He has played for Argentina national team.\n\n197||12\n219||11\n16||0\n432||23\n\n!Total||6||0\n", "id": "221567", "title": "Rodolfo Arruabarrena"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221568", "text": "Koichi Hashigaito\n\nKoichi Hashigaito (born 30 March 1982) is a Japanese football player.\n\n15||3||2||0||0||0||17||3\n15||3||2||0||0||0||17||3\n", "id": "221568", "title": "Koichi Hashigaito"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221570", "text": "Diego López Rodríguez\n\nDiego López Rodríguez (born 3 November 1981) is a Spanish football player. He plays for Real Madrid and Spain national team.\n\n60||0\n60||0\n\n!Total||1||0\n", "id": "221570", "title": "Diego López Rodríguez"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221571", "text": "Du Wei\n\nDu Wei (born 9 February 1982) is a Chinese football player. He plays for Hangzhou Greentown and China PR national team.\n\n159||15\n0||0\n159||15\n\n!Total||42||3\n", "id": "221571", "title": "Du Wei"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221572", "text": "Elías Figueroa\n\nElías Figueroa (born 25 October 1946) is a former Chilean football player. He has played for Chile national team.\n\n219||6\n139||8\n22||0\n380||14\n\n!Total||47||2\n", "id": "221572", "title": "Elías Figueroa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221578", "text": "Shizuoka\n\nShizuoka can refer to:\n", "id": "221578", "title": "Shizuoka"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221588", "text": "Bart the Murderer\n\n\"Bart the Murderer\" is the fourth episode of The Simpsons third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on October 10, 1991. In this episode, Bart upon the \"Mafia bar, Legitimate Businessman's Social Club\", after having a bad day at school. The owner of the bar, mobster \"Fat Tony\", hires Bart to work as its permanent bartender. When \"Principal Skinner\" goes missing after punishing Bart in school, Bart is quickly accused of killing him, in his standing trial in court. As Bart is about to get , Skinner shows up and says that he was stuck in his garage all week. Bart is therefore cleared of all the charges.\n", "id": "221588", "title": "Bart the Murderer"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221606", "text": "List of hummingbirds\n\nThe following is a list of all hummingbird species in alphabetical order.\n", "id": "221606", "title": "List of hummingbirds"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221609", "text": "Colorful puffleg\n\nThe colorful puffleg (\"Eriocnemis mirabilis\") is a critically endangered hummingbird endemic to Colombia. The colorful puffleg population is estimated as about 250–999 adult birds.\n\nThese colorful birds were first found in 1967 by photographer John Dunning who was below Cerro Munchique when he caught the colorful puffleg. He described it as a \"miraculous bird\".\n\nThe male has a shining green head, chest, and upper belly. He has brighter patches of green on his forehead. Both sexes has a bright blue belly, a red and yellow tail, and white feet. The feet have a light cinnamon brown color on them.\n\nIn 2005, Swarovski donated funds which allowed the American Bird Conservancy and Fundación ProAves to create a reserve for this species.\n", "id": "221609", "title": "Colorful puffleg"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221639", "text": "Nacozari de García (municipality)\n\nNacozari de García is a municipality in Sonora in north-western Mexico.\n", "id": "221639", "title": "Nacozari de García (municipality)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221640", "text": "Nacozari de García\n\nNacozari de García is a small mining town surrounded by its municipal area in the northeast of the Mexican state of Sonora. \n\nThe area of the municipality is . In 2000, the municipality had a population of 14,363. The town is located at an elevation of .\n\n\nThe town is on Federal Highway 17, which connects Agua Prieta with Hermosillo. The distance to Agua Prieta is . The town is oconnected to Aguq Prieta by a railroad. There is a small airport for light aircraft. \n\nThe land is mountainous and is part of the Sierra Madre Occidental mountains. There is a reservoir at La Angostura, which dams up the Río Bavispe (the Bavispe River). \n\nIn 1660, copper was found in the area, and mines were created. A village was begun, called \"Nuestra Señora del Rosario de Nacozari\" ('Our Lady of the Rosary of Nacozari'). \n\nThe mines were owned by the Anglo American U.B. Teader mining company in 1867. They later sold them to the Moctezuma Copper Co., which part of the Phelps Dodge company. American-style houses were built. A library and a small hospital were also built. When the mines were opened, copper was carried by mules. In 1904 the railroad was built, so the copper was moved by train. By 1907, Nacozari had become the metropolis of far northeastern Sonora. The population was 5,000 people, mostly Mexicans and Americans, with some Chinese people. Phelps kept the mines until 1948 when the copper had all been taken out.\n\nA large mine, La Caridad, was found about southeast of Nacozari in 1968. By 1979, the population of Nacozari was about 3,000 again. The federal government spent hundreds of millions of dollars to develop La Caridad (which was also called Mexicana de Cobre). They also re-opened other mines in the area. Nacozari was estimated to have a population of 18,600 people in 1986, and 30,000 in 1989. La Caridad is ranked the third largest copper mine in the world. \n\nThe town was first called Placeritos de Nacozari but changed its name to Nacozari de García. The town was named after the railroad engineer Jesús García, who saved the town from a dynamite explosion on 7 November 1907. There are monuments to Jesús García in many other Mexican cities and towns. November 7 is the Day of the Railroader in Mexico. Everybody who works on the railroad has a day off from work, apart from essential employees of the National Railways of Mexico. Many streets in Mexico are named Jesús García or the \"Héroe de Nacozari\". Poems and songs have been written about him and about the accident.\n\nThe name Nacozari is an word from the language of the Opata people who used to live in the area. It means \"a lot of nopal (the fruit of the Prickly pear)\".\n\nThe main source of income is from the copper mine of Mina Mexicana de Cobre, S.A de C.V, which employs most of the labor force (3,012 workers in 2000).\n\nCattle raising is also important with 16,375 cattle counted in the 2000 census. Calves are exported to the United States of America. \n\n", "id": "221640", "title": "Nacozari de García"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221645", "text": "Manchester code\n\nThe Manchester code is a binary encoding which also encodes the clock signal. This is very useful, because an external clock signal is no longer needed. A sequence of bits modulates the phase of the signal. This is a form of Phase shift keying, often shortened to PSK.\n\nOtherwise put, the information about the signal is in its signal flanks, that is when the signal changes.\n\nManchester codes are widely used, for example for Ethernet or for RFID. \n\nThere are two ways to represent a Manchester code:\n\nTo rule out ambiguities, Manchester codes use a \"preamble\". A preamble is a fixed sequence that is known beforehand.\n\nOne of the advantages of Manchester code is that the DC component of the signal carries no information. This makes it possible that standards that usually do not carry power can transmit this information. One of the drawbacks of the encoding is that it needs more bandwidth than other encodings, such as NRZ.\n", "id": "221645", "title": "Manchester code"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221658", "text": "Roger Waters\n\nGeorge Roger Waters (born 6 September 1943 is an English rock musician. He was born in Great Bookham, Surrey and moved to Cambridge during his early childhood. He is best known as the bass player, co-lead singer, principle lyricist, and founder member of the English rock band Pink Floyd (1964-1986). Waters became the primary lyrical contributor in Pink Floyd after the departure of fellow founding member Syd Barrett in January 1968, and sang lead vocals on at least one half of all Pink Floyd tracks during his tenure with the band. Many consider 1973-1979 to be the Golden Age of the Waters era Pink Floyd, during which time they released four studio albums, including two of the most commercially successful and critically acclaimed rock albums ever created.\n\nReleased in 1973, \"The Dark Side of the Moon\" is one of the top selling albums of all time. Pink Floyd followed the epochal success of \"Dark Side\" with \"Wish You Were Here\" (1975), \"Animals\" (1977) and 1979's \"The Wall\", a double album considered by many to be rock's finest. \"The Wall\", based on the life struggles of Roger Waters, is the best selling double disk of all time, and as Pink Floyd's second unequivocally definitive album, it solidified their status among the world's elite rock bands. In 1983 Pink Floyd released their tenth studio album, \"The Final Cut\". Written and almost entirely sung by Roger, (Gilmour sang on just one track), it is the only Pink Floyd album on which Waters is credited for the writing and composition of every song. In retrospect, \"The Final Cut\" is more fairly considered Roger's first solo album, essentially using David Gilmour and Nick Mason as studio musicians. One of rock music's most critically acclaimed and commercially successful acts, Pink Floyd has sold over 200 million albums worldwide, including 74.5 million in the United States.\n\nFollowing his legal and philosophical split with Pink Floyd in 1986, Waters began a solo career, releasing three studio albums, \"The Pros and Cons of Hitchhiking\" (1984), \"Radio K.A.O.S.\" (1987), and in 1992, the highly acclaimed \"Amused to Death\". In 1990, Roger staged one of the largest rock concerts ever, \"The Wall Concert in Berlin\", on the vacant terrain between Potsdamer Platz and the Brandenburg Gate. In 2005 he released the critically acclaimed opera, \"Ça Ira\", which would go on to top the classical charts in America and Britain, as well as joining Nick Mason, Richard Wright and David Gilmour, for an historical performance at the 2 July 2005 Live 8 concert in London's Hyde Park, Pink Floyd's first public performance with Roger in 24 years.\n\nWaters has toured extensively as a solo act since 2005, performing \"Dark Side\" to sold out audiences and critical acclaim the world over. Waters' manager, Mark Fenwick, has recently confirmed that Roger is \"considering\" touring \"The Wall\" in 2010 and 2011.\n", "id": "221658", "title": "Roger Waters"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221660", "text": "Big Max\n\nBig Max is a type of squash that can grow to be more than 100 pounds. They can also be in diameter if they are grown properly. They are commonly called pumpkins, but this is not entirely correct; Big Max are instead \"squash-type pumpkins\". They have a bright orange color, with fine-grained, yellow-orange flesh. The skin has deep lines in it and is slightly roughened, and can be up to thick. This makes Big Max squash good for keeping. The flesh is good for being canned and frozen. \n\nHowever, because they are so big, cooking with these squash is hard. They are said to not be as flavorful as smaller pumpkin varieties. The variety was , or created, for its large size. They have been grown as big as 300 pounds. Individual fruits are round to slightly flattened. \n\nThese squash are best planted between two and four weeks after the average last frost, and they become ripe 110 to 120 days after being planted. The plants need lots of room to grow well, and to get them very big, only one fruit should be grown on one vine. They are harvested before the first light frost, when the plant's leaves die. Although are different, seeds are often planted at deep, spaced apart.\n", "id": "221660", "title": "Big Max"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221665", "text": "Travira Air\n\nTravira Air (IATA: TR) is an airline based in Jakarta, Indonesia. It operates flights between Indonesian cities and other Asian countries. These flights are \"chartered\" by companies - this means that they do not follow fixed times. It is a small/middle size operator. \n\nTravira's aircraft are used by big mineral companies including ExxonMobil and West Natuna Consortium. They are also used by mining companies in Sumbawa and East Kalimantan. \n\nSince September 2008 Travira Air operated the following aircraft:\n\n", "id": "221665", "title": "Travira Air"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221667", "text": "Small-eared dormouse\n\nThe Small-eared Dormouse (Graphiurus microtis) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Angola, Botswana, Eritrea, Ethiopia, Kenya, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Sudan, Swaziland, Tanzania, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. \n\n", "id": "221667", "title": "Small-eared dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221672", "text": "Dormouse\n\nThe dormouse (plural: dormice) is a rodent in the family Gliridae. Dormice live mainly in Europe, although some live in Africa and Asia. They are known for their long periods of hibernation. Only one species of dormouse normally lives in the British Isles, so there \"dormouse\" usually means the hazel dormouse, not the whole family of dormice.\n\nDormice are small rodents, with a body length of between , and weighing between . They are usually mouse-like in appearance, but they have furry tails instead of scaly tails. They are usually arboreal animals (living in trees). They move quickly and are good at climbing. Most species are nocturnal. Dormice have a very good sense of hearing. They make noises to each other with different sounds using their voices.\n\nDormice are omnivorous, usually eating fruits, berries, flowers, nuts and insects. Dormice are different to all other rodents because they do not have a cecum which is a part of the gut. Other animals use the cecum to ferment plants. Their teeth are like squirrels, but they often do not have premolars.\n\nDormice breed one or two times per year, having an average of four young after a gestation period of 21–32 days. Dormice can live for as long as five years. The young are born without hair and they cannot do anything for themselves. Their eyes do not open until about eighteen days after birth. They are usually ready to reproduce after the end of their first hibernation. Dormice live in small family groups. The area they live in depends on which species they are, and how much food is available..\n\nOne of the main characteristics of dormice that live in temperate zones is hibernation. Dormice can hibernate six months out of the year, or even longer if the weather remains cold enough. They sometimes wake for a short amount of time so that they can eat food which they had previously stored nearby. During the summer, they store fat in their bodies, to give the dormouse the energy it needs to survive through the hibernation period.\n\nHibernation is where the name dormouse comes from. The Anglo-Norman word \"dormeus\" means \"sleepy (one)\"; the word was later changed to resemble the word \"mouse\". The sleepy behaviour of the Dormouse character in Lewis Carroll's \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" also shows this trait.\n\nThe edible dormouse was thought to be a special food in ancient Rome. It was eaten as an appetizer or as a dessert. When it was eaten as a dissert, it would be dipped in honey and poppy seeds. The Romans had a special place to keep dormice which was called a \"glirarium\". Dormice are still eaten in Slovenia. Dormouse fat was used by the Elizabethans to induce sleep.\n\nThe earliest fossil evidence of dormice has been found in Europe from the early Eocene times. They were in Africa in the upper Miocene. Their appearance in Asia was not as long ago. Many types of extinct dormouse species have been found. During the Pleistocene, giant dormice the size of large rats (for example \"Leithia melitensis\") lived on the islands of Malta and Sicily.\n\nThe family consists of 34 living species, in three subfamilies and 10 genera (although not all scientists agree with this number):\n\nFamily: Gliridae\n\n\n\n", "id": "221672", "title": "Dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221679", "text": "Martial eagle\n\nThe martial eagle (\"Polemaetus bellicosus\") is a bird of prey. It lives in Africa and is the biggest eagle in Africa, 76 to 96 cm (30–38 in) long, and its wingspan is 188–260 cm (6.2–8.5 ft) long.\n\nBecause it is so big, it can kill a small antelope called duikers and eat it, but it could not carry it up to its big nest in the tree.\n", "id": "221679", "title": "Martial eagle"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221682", "text": "Hazel dormouse\n\nThe hazel dormouse or common dormouse is \"Muscardinus avellanarius\". This small rodent is the only living species in its genus.\nIt is long with a tail of . It weighs , increasing to just before hibernation. The hazel dormouse hibernates from October to April/May. In British sources, it is normally called the dormouse rather than the hazel or common dormouse.\n\nThe hazel dormouse is native to northern Europe and Asia Minor. It is the only dormouse native to the British Isles, although the edible dormouse (\"Glis glis\") was accidentally introduced to the British Isles and now has an established population). \n\nThe locations in the UK where the hazel dormouse can be found is shown on the National Biodivestity Network website.\n\nThe hazel dormouse is a European Protected Species and is protected in the UK under the Wildlife and Countryside Act.\n\nThe hazel dormouse is the only small mammal in Britain to have a completely furry tail. It has golden-brown fur and large black eyes. It is a nocturnal creature and spends most of its waking hours looking for food in trees. It will make long trips in tree branches instead of coming down to the ground. This is to avoid danger.\n\nIn winter (early October), the hazel dormouse will hibernate in nests beneath the leaf litter on the forest floor. When it wakes up in spring (late April or early May), it builds nests out of honeysuckle bark, fresh leaves and grasses. If the weather is cold and wet and there is not much food, it saves energy by going into torpor (a temporary hibernation). It curls up into a ball and goes to sleep. The hazel dormouse spend a large amount of its life sleeping, either hibernating in winter or in torpor in summer.\n\nExamination of hazelnuts may show a neat round hole in the shell. This shows that it has been opened by a small rodent like the dormouse, wood mouse, or bank vole. Other animals including squirrels or jays will either split the shell completely in half or make a jagged hole in it.\n\nIf you look closer at the hole, the inner rim of the hole will have toothmarks which are at an angle to the hole (if it has been made by a dormouse). The toothmarks are parallel with rough marks on the nut surface if a wood mouse made the hole. The bank vole leaves parallel grooves with no rough marks.\n\nIt feeds on a different foods which it can find in trees:\n\nThe hazel dormouse needs different food sources at different times of year to survive.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "221682", "title": "Hazel dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221685", "text": "Edible dormouse\n\nThe edible dormouse or 'fat dormouse' (\"Glis glis\") is a small dormouse and the only species in the genus Glis.\n\nFat dormice are the largest dormice in Europe. The ancient Romans used to breed them to be eaten (usually as a snack). This is the reason for the word \"edible\" in its name. The dormice were kept in large pits or in terra cotta containers (which were called \"gliraria\"), which were like modern hamster cages.\n\nWild edible dormice are still eaten in Slovenia, and trapping dormice is a Slovenian tradition. Using dormice for food and fur is mentioned in documents which were written in the 13th century. They also mention the use of dormouse fat as a medicine. Poor and hungry peasants would eat dormice during winter because it is a good protein source.\n\nThe edible dormouse lives in Europe. It was accidentally introduced to the town of Tring in England after some dormice escaped from the private collection of Lionel Walter Rothschild in 1902. The British edible dormouse population is about 10,000 and is found in a triangle between Beaconsfield, Aylesbury and Luton. \nThis animal is seen as a pest by some people. In the United Kingdom the Wildlife and Countryside Act 1981 does not allow some ways of killing them, and to remove the dormice from the area may require a license.\n\n\n", "id": "221685", "title": "Edible dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221686", "text": "Bacillus subtilis\n\nBacillus subtilis is an endospore-forming bacterium. \n\nIt is the source of the antibiotic bacitracin. \"Bacillus subtilis\" is a gram positive, rod-shaped bacterium. It is a facultative anaerobe commonly found in soil, and is also found in the gut flora.\n", "id": "221686", "title": "Bacillus subtilis"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221724", "text": "Leap year starting on Thursday\n\nThis article describes any leap year starting on Thursday. Some of these years are listed in the table below.\n\nThe ISO year has 53 weeks in this kind of year, and the ISO week 10 (which begins March 1) and all ISO weeks after are earlier than in other years.\n", "id": "221724", "title": "Leap year starting on Thursday"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221726", "text": "Leap year starting on Saturday\n\nThis article describes any leap year starting on Saturday. Some of these years are listed in the table below.\n", "id": "221726", "title": "Leap year starting on Saturday"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221728", "text": "Leap year starting on Monday\n\nThis article describes any leap year starting on Monday. Some of these years are listed in the table below.\n", "id": "221728", "title": "Leap year starting on Monday"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221729", "text": "Leap year starting on Wednesday\n\nThis article describes any leap year starting on Wednesday. Some of these years are listed in the table below.\n", "id": "221729", "title": "Leap year starting on Wednesday"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221730", "text": "Leap year starting on Sunday\n\nThis article describes any leap year starting on Sunday. Some of these years are listed in the table below.\n", "id": "221730", "title": "Leap year starting on Sunday"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221731", "text": "Leap year starting on Friday\n\nThis article describes any leap year starting on Friday. Some of these years are listed in the table below.\n", "id": "221731", "title": "Leap year starting on Friday"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221737", "text": "Marcelo Sosa\n\nMarcelo Sosa (born 6 February 1978) is an Uruguayan football player. He has played for Uruguay national team.\n\n177||18\n8||0\n39||0\n2||0\n35||0\n261||18\n\n!Total||27||2\n", "id": "221737", "title": "Marcelo Sosa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221738", "text": "Djalminha\n\nDjalminha (born December 9, 1970) is a former Brazilian football player. He has played for the Brazilian national team.\n\n77||29\n11||4\n138||38\n10||2\n5||1\n241||74\n\n!Total||14||5\n\n", "id": "221738", "title": "Djalminha"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221798", "text": "Ophélie Bretnacher disappearance\n\nThe case of Ophélie Bretnacher's disappearance is a complex criminal and diplomatic case between France and Hungary, both members of the European Union.\n\nOphélie Bretnacher was a French student, at the \"Reims Management School\". With the European exchange programme, called \"Erasmus Programme\", she spent some time at the Corvinius University of Budapest. Ophélie Bretnacher disappeared in Budapest, Hungary on 4 December 2008. Coming out from a nightclub, the Portside of Cuba, she was tracked by the city video cameras part of her way. Her cellular phone and her bag were later found on the Lanchid bridge.\n\nIn the French Government, Catherine Vautrin, the Vice-Président of the National Assembly recalls the disappearance of Ophélie and asks for a French intervention. and Ophélie appears on Nicolas Sarkozy's blog.\n\nOphélie Bretnacher disappeared 2 and a half months after Eva Rhodes, the Yoko Ono and John Lennon model, in Hungary. Their families are planning to send a claim from the European Union and make known the fact that 4500 foreign people disappear each year in Hungary.\n\nGood police and judicial cooperation between countries, members of the European Union is specified in the Treaty of Lisbon, applicable on 1 December 2009 and in the \"Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union\".\n\nHer body was discovered in Csepel, in February 2009, in a in a backwater of the Danube. Homicide cannot be ruled out because of the finding of an hematoma on Ophelie's body as well as many gray areas during the search. \n\nTo date, no findings have been sent by Hungary such as the forensic analysis like Diatoms and the Danube search report, despite the intervention mission twice in 2009 of French investigators in Hungary and the local investigation seems not having progressed for one year.\n\nIn February 2010, her family filed a new claim for murder. The Bretnacher family lawyer is William Bourdon, the secretary-general of the International Federation of Human Rights Leagues (1995-2000) and the lawyer of Transparency International.\n\nIn March 2010, a judicial inquiry is opened in Paris for kidnapping, sequestration, followed by murder.\n\nOne year later her friends, who were successful in raising 60 000 people on Facebook groups, from many European nations, launched a request for the second consecutive year in order to obtain some answers.\n\nAt the end of 2010, two years after her disappearance, more than 45,000 people from different countries took part to another Facebook event for Ophélie and, on December 4th, her friends announced that they will organize a new Internet mobilization: \n\n\"We will create an event for Ophélie, every year, until full light will be shed on her disappearance and death, until justice is done !\"\n\nTwo years after her disappearance, on 4 December 2010, Maitre William Bourdon, said that the investigation continues. The article also notes:\n\n- The complete analysis of diatoms, which would have allowed knowing with certainty the location of drowning, has not been obtained yet.\n\n- All required documents have not been sent. \n\n- The telephone terminals on the path of Ophélie have not been exploited yet.\n\n- Some evidences (such as the walker who heard screams of women at the time of the disappearance was close to where her bag was found) have not been investigated further\n\n- The body of Ophélie was in a place against the current, and it is not possible that came from the Chain Bridge.\n\n", "id": "221798", "title": "Ophélie Bretnacher disappearance"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221800", "text": "Homer Defined\n\n\"Homer Defined\" is the fifth episode of \"The Simpsons\" third season, which first started on October 17, 1991. The episode has the first appearance of \"Milhouse's mother\" and the first time his surname, \"Van Houten\", is used.\n", "id": "221800", "title": "Homer Defined"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221807", "text": "Like Father, Like Clown\n\n\"Like Father, Like Clown\" is the sixth episode of The Simpsons third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on October 24, 1991. In this episode, Krusty the Clown says to the Simpson family that he is of \"Jewish heritage\", and that his father, \"Rabbi Hyman Krustofski\", disowned him for keeping a job in comedy. Krusty is sad and Bart and Lisa decide to try to Krusty with his long-estranged father.\n", "id": "221807", "title": "Like Father, Like Clown"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221810", "text": "Treehouse of Horror II\n\n\"Treehouse of Horror II\" is the seventh episode of The Simpsons third season, the second Simpsons Halloween episode, and the first Halloween episode where names in the closing credits were replaced by 'spooky name' parodies. The episode first started on October 31, 1991. The first part, \"The Monkey's Paw\", is a direct reference to W.W. Jacobs's short story The Monkey's Paw, in which the Simpsons's wishes all backfire on them after buying a hand of a monkey. In the second part, \"The Bart Zone\", Bart has powers, and turns Homer into a jack-in-the-box, in the two spending more time together. The part was a parody of The Twilight Zone episode \"It's a Good Life\". In the last part, \"If I Only Had A Brain\", Mr. Burns's head is onto Homer's head after Mr. Burns tries to create a robot with Homer's brain.\n", "id": "221810", "title": "Treehouse of Horror II"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221817", "text": "Lisa's Pony\n\n\"Lisa's Pony\" is the eighth episode of the third season of \"The Simpsons\". It first aired on the Fox network in the United States on November 7, 1991. In this episode, Homer Lisa by forgetting to buy the right reed for her saxophone. desperate to win back his daughter's love, Homer gives Lisa the one thing she has always wanted, a pony named \"Princess.\" Homer struggles with two jobs to cover the cost of and feeding the pony. Lisa, upon seeing what Homer must go through to pay for the pony, decides to give it away.\n\n", "id": "221817", "title": "Lisa's Pony"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221819", "text": "Anna's hummingbird\n\nAnna's hummingbird (\"Calypte anna\") is 9 to 10 centimetres (3.5 to 3.9 in) long. \n\nIt has a bronze-green back, a light grey chest and belly, and green flanks. Its bill is long, straight and slender. The adult male has an iridescent crimson-red crown and throat, and a dark, slightly forked tail. Anna's is the only North American hummingbird species with a red crown. Females and young have a green crown, a grey throat with some red markings, a grey chest and belly, and a dark, rounded tail with white tips on the outer feathers.\n\nThese birds feed on nectar from flowers using a long tongue. They also eat small spiders and insects caught in flight. While collecting nectar, they also help in plant pollination. This species sometimes eats tree sap.\n", "id": "221819", "title": "Anna's hummingbird"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221828", "text": "Hyundai Getz\n\nThe Hyundai Getz is a car produced by Hyundai since 2002. It was succeeded by the i20 in 2008, but was still produced.\n", "id": "221828", "title": "Hyundai Getz"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221831", "text": "Hyundai i20\n\nThe Hyundai i20 is a car produced by Hyundai. It is the successor of the Getz, and were based on the Kia Soul's platform.\n", "id": "221831", "title": "Hyundai i20"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221832", "text": "Hyundai Sonata\n\nThe Hyundai Sonata is a car produced by Hyundai since 1985. It is currently in its Fourth generation. It will be successed by the i45 in 2010.\n", "id": "221832", "title": "Hyundai Sonata"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221836", "text": "Hyundai i30\n\nThe Hyundai i30 is a car produced by Hyundai since 2007. It is the successor of the Elantra, and is based on the Kia cee'd's platform.\n", "id": "221836", "title": "Hyundai i30"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221838", "text": "Hyundai i10\n\nThe Hyundai i10 is a car produced by Hyundai since 2008. It is the successor of the Atos, and were based on the Kia Picanto's platform. It entered its second generation in 2013 and it became popular in the UK during the scrappage scheme in 2009. \n\n", "id": "221838", "title": "Hyundai i10"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221839", "text": "Hyundai Tucson\n\nThe Hyundai Tucson is a compact CUV that is produced by Hyundai Motor Company. In some markets it is sold as the ix35, but the ix35 name is expected to be dropped. It is based on the Kia Sportage's unibody platform.\n", "id": "221839", "title": "Hyundai Tucson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221840", "text": "Hyundai Accent\n\nThe Hyundai Accent is a car produced by Hyundai Motor Company since 1994. It is the successor of the Pony, and it is now in its Third generation. The car was sold in Mexico as the Dodge Attitude until 2013 when Hyundai entered the Mexican market.\n", "id": "221840", "title": "Hyundai Accent"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221846", "text": "TAM\n\nTAM or Tam can be:\n\n", "id": "221846", "title": "TAM"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221854", "text": "Black-breasted puffleg\n\nThe black-breasted puffleg (\"Eriocnemis nigrivestis\") is a species of hummingbird that lives only in Ecuador. \n\nThe average length of the black-breasted puffleg is 8.5 cm. It has a very restricted range, being found only on the northwestern parts of the Pichincha volcano. It is critically endangered.\n", "id": "221854", "title": "Black-breasted puffleg"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221863", "text": "Giant octopus\n\nThe Giant octopus is Enteroctopus, and one of its species is the largest octopus. There are four species: the North Pacific Giant Octopus (\"E. dofleini\"), the Southern Giant Octopus (\"Enteroctopus magnificus\"), \"E. megalocyathus\", and \"E. zealandicus\".\n\nThe only member of this genus that deserves the common name \"Giant octopus\" is \"Enteroctopus dofleini\". This holds the record of being the world's largest octopus: direct measurements were made of a live 71 kg (156.5 lb) individual. This octopus had a total length near to 4 m (13 ft). \n\nThe remaining members of the genus are much smaller. \"E. megalocyathus\" has an average weight of 4 kg and a total length of 1 m. \"E. magnificus\" has a total length of around 1.5 m.\n", "id": "221863", "title": "Giant octopus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221871", "text": "Kia Joice\n\nThe Kia Joice is a car produced by Kia Motors between 1999-2003. Was based on the Hyundai Santamo's platform.\n", "id": "221871", "title": "Kia Joice"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221881", "text": "Antacid\n\nAntacids (or indigestion tablets) are used to help stop . You may get indigestion if you have eaten too much or if you have eaten too fast. If you have indigestion, the liquid in your stomach will become more acidic. \n\nThe reaction that is happening is called \"neutralisation\". This is because the tablets are alkaline and the liquids in your stomach are acidic.\n\nThis reaction between the stomach acids and the antacid will make the acid that causes the problem(s) change into harmless substances such as water or salt.\n\nAn example of an antacid is . \n", "id": "221881", "title": "Antacid"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221886", "text": "Down and Out in Paris and London\n\nDown and Out in Paris and London is a written exposé. It was written by George Orwell. It is about poverty in two European cities: Paris and London. In Paris the main character works as a pleunger (lowest possible position) in a Paris hotel and describes the hard life that is lived by thousands of parisians. In London he is promised work, but the work is not there so he has to travel from homeless shelter to homeless shelter everyday with a group of hobos.\n", "id": "221886", "title": "Down and Out in Paris and London"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221988", "text": "West Nile virus\n\nWest Nile Virus (WNV) is a virus that belongs to the genus \"Flavivirus\". It causes an infectious disease called \"West Nile virus disease\" or just \"West Nile virus.\" WNV mainly infects birds, but it can also infect humans, horses, dogs, bats, cats, reptiles, and amphibians.\n\nWest Nile virus is spread by mosquitoes, who get the virus from birds. If a mosquito bites a bird that has WNV, and then bites a human, that person can get West Nile Virus.\n\nWest Nile virus was first discovered in 1937, in the West Nile area of Uganda, in East Africa. (This is how the virus got its name.) However, before the 1990s, there were very few cases of WNV. Then there was an outbreak in Algeria in 1994 and another in Romania in 1996. By 2004, the virus had spread to North America, the Caribbean islands, and Latin America. It continues to spread through Africa, Asia, Australia, Europe, the Middle East, Canada, and the United States. In 2012, one of the worst West Nile virus epidemics yet happened in the United States; 286 people died.\n\nAbout 80% of people who get West Nile virus have no symptoms.\n\nWhen a person does get symptoms, they usually do not appear until 2 to 15 days after the person got the virus. (This is called the virus's incubation period.)\n\nWest Nile virus can cause many different types of illness. The rarest, but most serious types affect the neurological system - the brain and the nerves. The most common type of illness caused by WNV is West Nile fever, which does not affect the neurological system.\n\nWest Nile fever happens in about 20% of people with WNV. It causes a high fever and flu-like symptoms. Usually, the symptoms are not too bad, and get better after 3 to 6 days. Symptoms may include:\n\nNeuroinvasive disease is when the West Nile virus infects the central nervous system (the brain and spinal cord). This happens in less than 1% of people who get West Nile virus. However, in those people, it can cause very serious problems. These problems include:\n\nWNV can cause some other complications that do not affect the neurological system. These complications are very uncommon. They include:\n\nAt first, a medical professional usually makes a possible diagnosis of West Nile virus based on a person's symptoms, where they live, and when and where they have traveled. The World Health Organization says that doctors should suspect West Nile virus if a patient:\n\nWest Nile virus can be diagnosed for certain by:\n\nThere is no known treatment or cure for WNV. There are no known anti-viral medications (medicines which kill viruses) which will kill the West Nile virus. Doctors can only provide \"supportive care,\" which means they can only treat the symptoms of WNV. For example, they can give fluids through a needle placed into a vein if a person is very dehydrated; help the person breathe if needed; and give medications to prevent them from getting any other infections.\n\nThe West Nile virus stays alive in nature by getting spread back and forth between birds and mosquitoes. Birds get WNV more often than any other living things. When a mosquito bites a bird that has WNV, the mosquito gets the virus. Then, if the mosquito bites a bird that does not have WNV, the mosquito can give that bird the virus. In this way, birds and mosquitoes give the virus to each other and keep it alive.\n\nHumans usually get West Nile virus by being bitten by mosquitoes who have gotten the virus from birds. Humans can get the virus from many different species of mosquitoes.\n\nThough this is not common, a person with West Nile virus can give another person the virus. This can happen if:\n\nThere is no vaccine that will prevent West Nile virus. The best way for people to protect themselves against West Nile virus is to protect themselves against mosquitoes. There are many ways to do this. For example:\n\nScientists can trap mosquitoes and birds, and test them for West Nile virus to see if the virus is spreading in a certain area. If it is, they can do things like spray pesticides to kill mosquitoes.\n\nAbout West Nile virus\n\nPrevention\n\nFor medical professionals\n", "id": "221988", "title": "West Nile virus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221991", "text": "3rd millennium\n\nThe 3rd millennium is a period of time that started on January 1, 2001 and will end on December 31, 3000 of the Gregorian calendar. As this millennium is currently in progress, it's first two decades, the past 2000s and the present 2010s are the subject of the historian's attention. The remaining part of the 21st century and the time after that are researched in Futures studies.\n", "id": "221991", "title": "3rd millennium"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221992", "text": "Century leap year\n\nIn the Gregorian calendar, a century leap year is a year that is exactly divisible by 400 (and qualifies for the adding of February 29, like all other leap years). For example, the years 1600 and 2000 were century leap years; the century years 1700, 1800, and 1900 were not century leap years. The next century leap year will occur in the year 2400. Century leap years always begin on a Saturday, and in such years February 29 always falls on a Tuesday.\n", "id": "221992", "title": "Century leap year"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=221996", "text": "Plywood\n\nPlywood is a manufactured wood which is made by gluing several thin sheets of wood together with the grain alternately running along the sheet then across it.\n\nA common reason for using plywood instead of plain wood is its resistance to cracking, shrinking and changing shape. It is used to make a range of things from sheds, to cladding to cabinets. It is graded on the quality, from class A to class D, A being the best quality and D being the worst quality.\n\nMakers use different kinds of softwood and hardwood and methods, to make different kinds of plywood. They are used for different purposes.\n", "id": "221996", "title": "Plywood"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222013", "text": "Plastid\n\nA plastid is a self-reproducing organelle of plants and algae. A plastome is the DNA genome of a plastid. They are like tiny machines inside cells: each makes or stores important chemicals used by the plant. \n\nExamples of plastids are: \n\nPlastids in algae and hornworts may differ from plant plastids. In algae, the term \"leucoplast\" is used for all unpigmented plastids and their function differs from the leucoplasts of plants. \n\nGlaucocystophytic algae contain muroplasts, which are similar to chloroplasts except that they have a cell wall, similar to that of prokaryotes. Rhodophytic algae contain rhodoplasts, which are red chloroplasts which allow the algae to photosynthesise to a depth of up to 268 metres.\n\nPlastids are one of the many different types of organelles in the cell. In endosymbiont theory, plastids originated as cyanobacteria. This was first suggested by Mereschkowsky in 1905. Schimper in 1883 had said chloroplasts closely resembled cyanobacteria. \n\nAlmost all chloroplasts are thought to derive directly or indirectly from a single endosymbiotic event. Mitochondria also derive from symbiosis, but chloroplasts are found only in plants and protista. The chloroplast is surrounded by a double-layered composite membrane with an intermembrane space; further, it has reticulations, or many infoldings, filling the inner spaces. The chloroplast has its own DNA, which codes for redox proteins involved in electron transport in photosynthesis.\n", "id": "222013", "title": "Plastid"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222014", "text": "Medical Renaissance\n\nRenaissance medicine is the term used for the development of medicine at the time of the Renaissance in Europe. Scientists began to study the body and treat its diseases. One scientist said that the body is mostly chemicals, so it should be healed by chemicals. Other scientists studied anatomy. By learning the positions of bones, muscles, and organs, they were able to give better treatment. The Englishman William Harvey discovered that blood is pumped by the heart, travels through the body in blood vessels, and returns back to the heart in the circulatory system. This made medical research in the 1600s much better and easy to understand. \n\nIn the renaissance, a very important theory in medicine was the Four humours or Four temperaments. This theory began with the Ancient Greeks, and influenced medical development until the 19th century. According to the theory, the body was filled with four different substances, called \"humours\". When a person is healthy, these substances are in balance. When there is an imbalance between the humours, the person will be sick. The sickness can be cured by bringing the four humours back to balance. The four substances are , phlegm and blood. Galen still supported that theory, but refined it in many ways. \n\nRhazes (865–925) was the first physician to show that the theory of four humors was wrong, in his \"Doubts about Galen\". He carried out an experiment which would upset this system: He inserted a liquid with a different temperature into the body. This would result in an increase or decrease of bodily heat, which resembled the temperature of that particular fluid. Rhazes noted that a warm drink would heat up the body to a degree much higher than its own natural temperature, The drink would therefore trigger a response from the body, rather than transferring only its own warmth or coldness to it. Avenzoar (1091–1161) carried out an experimental dissection and autopsy to prove that the skin disease was caused by a parasite. This discovery upset the theory of humorism. The removal of the parasite from the patient's body did not involve purging, bloodletting, or any other traditional treatments associated with the four humors. Ibn al-Nafis (1213–1288) then discredited the theory of four humors after his discovery of pulmonary circulation and coronary circulation.\n\nBecause there were only a few ways of studying how the body worked, early doctors did not know how to cure sickness. When a plague started, they could not really know what to do for their patients except making them a little less painful. One of their mistakes was that they thought the \"air\" carried the disease (which it sometimes did), or that sickness was caused by \"flying venom\": so, they covered their mouths or burned aromatic leaves (leaves that smelled good), but did not wash their hands after seeing a sick friend or family member.When William Harvey practiced medicine in 1618, only a few of his friends were trying to find out how the body worked, and only a few doctors believed Harvey when he said that the blood was pumped by the heart. Most people thought he was a quack (fake or bad doctor). Slowly they began to see his findings were real.\n\nIn the 17th century, Anton van Leeuwenhoek and Robert Hooke developed the light microscope. Using such a microscope, Leeuwenhoek was the first to see bacteria, in 1676. He called them \"animalcules\" and published his observations in a series of letters to the Royal Society. The name \"bacterium\" was introduced much later, by Christian Gottfried Ehrenberg in 1838.\nHowever, there were still lots of strange \"cures\". For instance, in his medical book \"Rosa Angelica\", John Gadesen wrote how he treated smallpox in the son of Edward II by putting him in a red room because \"red cures red\". It was thought by many people that red diseases could be cured by having the patient look at the color red. \n\nAlso, doctors said that \"if an adder (snake) strike (bite) a man, wash a black snail in holy water, and give to the sick to drink.\" Today, of course, doctors do not use this cure.\n\nSome cures not only didn't work, they could be dangerous to the patient. For instance, when someone was sick, doctors said that bad blood must be removed. To remove the bad blood, the doctor attached leeches to the patient (leeches are animals that suck blood). When the leech was full, the job was finished. But when somebody was sick, taking away their blood could make them very weak - they could even die. As science and medicine grew better, leeching was stopped until recently, when doctors began sometimes using leeches on patients who had fingers or hands that were cut off and reattached. One of the greatest pains in reattachment is just after surgery, when the blood pools under the skin and is very painful. Doctors have found out that using leeches to drink the excess blood helps to make the pain smaller.\n\nSome cures really worked, though. Sometimes wounds that today we would use stitches were held together using beetles that had . The edges of the wound were pinched together by a big, angry beetle. When the pincers were pinching it firmly together, the beetle head would be cut off. Spider webs were used to help wounds clot (blood come together). Doctors are still looking into other \"cures\" that were used in the Renaissance to see if they can help today's medicine.\n\n\n", "id": "222014", "title": "Medical Renaissance"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222020", "text": "Mixotroph\n\nA mixotroph is an organism that can use a mix of different sources of energy and carbon. Usually this means that it may be either autotroph or heterotroph at different times in its life. Also possible are alternations between photo- and chemotrophy, or between litho- and organotrophy. Mixotrophs can be either eukaryotes or prokaryotes.\n", "id": "222020", "title": "Mixotroph"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222024", "text": "Reddish Hermit\n\nThe Reddish Hermit (\"Phaethornis ruber\") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Venezuela, and in the Guianas. The reddish hermit is 7.5 cm in length, which makes it one of the smallest hermits. Its natural habitats are forest and woodland, mostly humid.\n", "id": "222024", "title": "Reddish Hermit"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222028", "text": "Gray-tailed mountain-gem\n\nThe gray-tailed mountain-gem (\"Lampornis cinereicauda\") is a species of hummingbird. It lives in the mountains of southern Costa Rica from the Cordillera de Talamanca southward to the border with Panama. \n\nMale gray-tailed mountain-gems have iridescent emerald green with a thouch of a bronzy brown mixed in. It has a gray tail, a bright blue-green forehead and top of the head, and a bright white throat next to iridescent blue-green on the upper belly. Both male and female have a straight, thin, black bill, a white stripe behind the eye, and blackish wings. \n\nThe female gray-tailed mountain-gem are colored quite different then the male. They have an iridescent bronzy emerald green from the forehead, all the way to the tail, covering the whole backside. Their whole front side is a tan-orange color, all the way from the chin, to the lower belly; and a white-tipped, green tail, completes the coloring of the female.\n", "id": "222028", "title": "Gray-tailed mountain-gem"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222070", "text": "Saturdays of Thunder\n\n\"Saturdays of Thunder\" is the ninth episode of The Simpsons third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on November 14, 1991. In this episode, Homer takes a fatherhood quiz and realizes that he knows nothing about Bart. He tries to be a better father and learns that Bart is entering in a \"Soap Box Derby.\" Homer and Bart make a racer together, however it is not very good, and Bart decides to drive Martin's much nicer racer instead. Homer is at first sad, but decides that he must be a good father and support Bart.\n", "id": "222070", "title": "Saturdays of Thunder"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222076", "text": "Flaming Moe's\n\n\"Flaming Moe's\" is the tenth episode of \"The Simpsons\" third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on November 21, 1991. In this episode, Homer tells \"Moe Szyslak\" of a secret alcoholic cocktail that has cough syrup and fire that he calls \"Flaming Homer.\" Moe steals the recipe from Homer, and renames the drink the \"Flaming Moe\" and begins selling it at his . The drink is a success and boosts business, but Homer is angry at Moe for his greediness, and seeks revenge.\n", "id": "222076", "title": "Flaming Moe's"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222082", "text": "Rufous-crested Coquette\n\nThe Rufous-Crested Coquette (\"Lophornis delattrei\") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Bolivia, Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Panama, and Peru. It lives in subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests, subtropical or tropical moist montane forests, and heavily degraded former forest.\n", "id": "222082", "title": "Rufous-crested Coquette"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222116", "text": "Black metaltail\n\nThe black metaltail (\"Metallura phoebe\") is a species of hummingbird. It can be found in Bolivia and Peru. It lives in subtropical or tropical moist montanes and subtropical or tropical high-altitude shrubland.\n\n", "id": "222116", "title": "Black metaltail"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222120", "text": "Jonagold\n\nA Jonagold is a kind of apple, a cross between a Golden Delicious and a Jonathan. They form a large sweet fruit with thin skin.\n", "id": "222120", "title": "Jonagold"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222122", "text": "Control of fire by early humans\n\nWhen humans first learned how to control fire, it was an important step in their culture. It allowed humans to cook food and get warmth and protection. Making fire also allowed activity into the dark, and gave some protection from predators and insects.\n\nThe cooking of food was probably the most useful effect of fire. There are foods like meat and fruits which do not need cooking, but others, such as root vegetables, mostly need cooking.\n\nWe do not know for sure when this step was taken. \"Fire was first controlled by humans anywhere from about 230,000 years ago to 1.4 or 1.5 million years ago, depending on which evidence you accept as definitive\". \n\nEvidence for the use of fire by \"Homo erectus\" beginning some 400,000 years ago has wide scholarly support.\n\nClaims for the earliest definitive evidence of control of fire by a member of \"Homo\" range from 0.2 to 1.7 million years ago (mya).\n\nThe earliest evidence of humans using fire comes from many archaeological sites in East Africa, like Chesowanja near Lake Baringo, Koobi Fora, and Olorgesailie in Kenya. The evidence at Chesowanja is red clay shards that scientists are 1.42 million years old. Scientists reheated some of the shards at the site, and found that the clay must have been heated to 400 °C to harden.\n\nAt Koobi Fora, there are archaeological sites with evidence of control of fire by \"Homo erectus\" 1.5 million years ago, with the reddening of sediment that can only come from heating at 200—400 °C. There is a hearth-like depression at a site in Olorgesailie, Kenya. Some very tiny charcoal was found, but it could have come from a natural brush fire.\n\nIn Gadeb, Ethiopia, fragments of welded tuff that seemed to have been burned were found in Locality 8E, but re-firing of the rocks may have happened because of volcanoes erupting nearby. These have been found among Acheulean artifacts made by \"H. erectus\".\n\nIn the Middle Awash River Valley, cone-shaped depressions of reddish clay were found that could be made by temperatures of 200 °C. These features are thought to be burned tree stumps such that they would have fire away from their habitation site. There are also burnt stones in the \"Awash Valley\", but volcanic welded tuff is also in the area.\n\nThe earliest certain evidence of human control of fire was found at Swartkrans, South Africa. Many burnt bones were found among Acheulean tools, bone tools, and bones with cut marks that were made by hominids. This site also shows some of the earliest evidence of \"H. erectus\" eating meat. The Cave of Hearths in South Africa has burned deposits dated from 0.2 to 0.7 mya, as do many other places such as Montagu Cave (0.058 to 0.2 mya and at the Klasies River Mouth (0.12 to 0.13 mya.\n\nThe most powerful evidence comes from Kalambo Falls in Zambia where many things related to the use of fire by humans had been found, like charred wood, charcoal, reddened areas, carbonized grass stems and plants, and wooden implements which may have been hardened by fire. The place was dated through radiocarbon dating to be at 61,000 BP and 110,000 BP through amino acid racemization.\n\nFire was used to heat silcrete stones to increase their works before they were knapped into tools by Stillbay culture. This clue shows this not only with Stillbay sites that date back to 72,000 BP but sites that could be as old as 164,000 BP.\n\nAn important change in the behavior of humans happened because of their control of fire and the light that came from the fire. Activity was no longer restricted to the daylight hours. Some mammals and biting insects avoid fire and smoke. Fire also led to better nutrition though cooked proteins.\n\nRichard Wrangham of Harvard University argues that cooking of plant foods may have caused the brain to get bigger, because it made complex carbohydrates in starchy foods easier to digest. This made humans absorb more calories.\n\nStahl thought that because some parts of plants, like raw cellulose and starch are hard to digest in uncooked form, they would likely not be a part of the hominid diet before fire could be controlled. These parts include stems, mature leaves, enlarged roots, and tubers. Instead, the diet was made up of the parts of the plants that were made of simpler sugars and carbohydrates such as seeds, flowers, and fleshy fruits. Another problem was that some seeds and carbohydrate sources are poisonous. Cyanogenic glycosides, which are in linseed, cassava, and manioc, amongst others, are made non-poisonous through cooking. The teeth of \"H. erectus\" and the wear on the teeth reflect the consumption of foods such as tough meats and crisp root vegetables.\n\nThe cooking of meat, as can be seen from burned and blackened mammal bones, makes the meats easier to eat. It is also easier to get the nutrition from proteins because the meat itself is easier to digest. The amount of energy needed to digest cooked meat is less than that needed for raw meat, and cooking gelatinizes collagen and other connective tissues as well, it \"opens up tightly woven carbohydrate molecules for easier absorption.\" Cooking also kills parasites and food poisoning bacteria.\n", "id": "222122", "title": "Control of fire by early humans"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222126", "text": "Gloss\n\nGloss may be:\n\n", "id": "222126", "title": "Gloss"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222130", "text": "South Shields (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nSouth Shields is a borough constituency that is represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election.\n\nCurrently, this constituency contains the areas of South Shields in South Tyneside in Tyne and wear. Changes to the boundary that are to be in place for the next election will bring Whitburn into the constituency from neighbouring Jarrow.\n", "id": "222130", "title": "South Shields (UK Parliament constituency)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222151", "text": "Burns Verkaufen der Kraftwerk\n\n\"Burns Verkaufen der Kraftwerk\" is the eleventh episode of The Simpsons third season. The name is in a grammatically incorrect form, it must be called \"Burns verkauft das Kraftwerk\". The episode first started on December 5, 1991. In this episode, Mr. Burns, who is sad because he wishes to pursue many interests, decides to sell the power plant to two German investors for \"100 million dollars.\" Homer's incompetence quickly gets him fired by the Germans. Meanwhile, Mr. Burns has lost all his respectability because he can no longer control anyone. As a result, he decides to buy back the plant. Because the power plant has been so costly to maintain, the Germans decide to sell the power plant back to Burns for 50 million dollars. Determined to keep his enemies close at hand, Burns rehires Homer, and all is back to normal.\n", "id": "222151", "title": "Burns Verkaufen der Kraftwerk"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222165", "text": "Interval (mathematics)\n\nIn mathematics, an interval is a group of numbers that includes all numbers between the beginning and the end. Numbers that are larger than the beginning number and smaller than the end number are inside the interval, and numbers that are smaller than the beginning number or larger than the end number are not in the interval. The beginning number and end number may or may not be inside the interval. An example of an interval might be from 3.3 to 15. Numbers such as 4, 8, 9.5, 14, and even 14.999 are inside this interval. Numbers such as -4, 2, 3.2, 20, and 15.000001 are not inside this interval.\n\nTo write an interval, write either a square bracket ( [ ) or a parenthesis ( ( ), the beginning number, a comma ( , ), the end number, and either a closing square bracket ( ] ) or a closing parenthesis ( ) ). Examples of intervals are (4, 9.6), [-100, 100], [-30, -4).\n\nIntervals can be separated by how they act at their ends. Intervals can be closed, open, or mixed.\n\nAn interval that is closed also includes the beginning and the end. A closed interval that has 3 as the beginning and 5.4 as the end would include 3, 5.4, and every number between 3 and 5.4. To write a closed interval, use square brackets ( [ and ] ). An example of an closed interval is [136, 450].\n\nAn interval that is open does not include the beginning or the end. An open interval that has 3 as the beginning and 5 as the end would include every number between 3 and 5, but it would not include 3 or 5. To write an open interval, use parentheses ( ( and ) ). An example of an open interval is (2, 5).\n\nA mixed interval is open at one end and closed at the other end. This means that the interval may include the beginning but not the end, or it may include the end but not the beginning. The interval [9, 23) would include 9, but it would not include 23.\n", "id": "222165", "title": "Interval (mathematics)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222170", "text": "Actinobacteria\n\nThe Actinobacteria are a group of gram-positive bacteria. Most are found in the soil. They include some of the most common soil life, playing important roles in decomposition and humus formation. \n\nSome, like \"Streptomyces\", were originally classified as fungi, because they form branching filaments like hyphae. All Actinobacteria are aerobic. A few forms are pathogens, such as \"Mycobacterium\". Some are thermophilic.\n", "id": "222170", "title": "Actinobacteria"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222177", "text": "Oracle Database\n\nOracle database is a relational database management system that is made by the Oracle Corporation.\n", "id": "222177", "title": "Oracle Database"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222181", "text": "Golgi\n\nGolgi may mean:\n\n", "id": "222181", "title": "Golgi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222186", "text": "Graphiurus\n\nThe African dormouse, Graphiurus, is a genus of dormouse that lives throughout sub-Saharan Africa in different habitats. They are good at climbing. They have bushy tails. They eat invertebrates and small vertebrates.\n\n", "id": "222186", "title": "Graphiurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222187", "text": "Angolan African dormouse\n\nThe Angolan African Dormouse (\"Graphiurus angolensis\") is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is endemic to (lives only in) Angola. \nIts natural habitat is subtropical or tropical dry forests. \n\n", "id": "222187", "title": "Angolan African dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222189", "text": "Christy's dormouse\n\nChristy's Dormouse (Graphiurus christyi) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Cameroon and Democratic Republic of the Congo. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests. \n\n", "id": "222189", "title": "Christy's dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222194", "text": "Linnean Society of London\n\nThe Linnean Society of London is the world's biggest society for the study and discussion of taxonomy and natural history. It publishes a Zoological Journal, as well as Botanical and Biological Journals. It also prints \"The Linnean\", a review of the history of the society and of taxonomy.\n\nThe Linnean Society was started in 1788. It was named after the Swedish naturalist Carolus Linnaeus. The Society is based at Burlington House in Piccadilly, London. Members can be a \"Student member\", an \"Associate member\" or a \"full Fellow\". To become a member, a person needs to be nominated by two or more Fellows, and succeed in an election. Fellows of the society can use the letters \"FLS\" after their names to show their membership of the Society (for example, \"John Smith FLS\").\n\nThe Linnean Society of London wants to promote the study of all areas of the biological sciences. They especially want to promote the study of evolution, taxonomy, biodiversity and sustainability. The Society awards medals and grants to help with this.\n\nThe following medals and prizes are awarded by the Linnean Society:\n\nLinnaeus' botanical and zoological collections were bought in 1783 by Sir James Edward Smith, the first President of the society. They are held in London by the Society. The collections include 14,000 plants, 158 fish, 1,564 shells, 3,198 insects, 1,600 books and 3,000 letters and documents. If you want to see them, you need to make an appointment.\n\nJames Smith's own plant collection is also kept by the Society. It has been put into a database by the Smith Herbarium Project at the National Museums Liverpool. 6,000 plants have been cleaned and repaired.\n\nAustralia\nCanada\nFrance\nSweden\nUnited Kingdom\nUnited States\n\n\n", "id": "222194", "title": "Linnean Society of London"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222195", "text": "Guy Dollman\n\nCaptain John Guy Dollman BA, FLS (1886-1942) (who was known as Guy Dollman) was a British zoologist and taxonomist. Dollman's Tree Mouse and Dollman's Vlei Rat are named after him.\n\nGuy Dollman was the eldest son of the artist John Charles Dollman. He was born on 4 September 1886 and went to St Paul's School. He later went to St John's College Cambridge. In February 1907, when he was still a student, he was employed by the Department of Zoology at the British Museum (Natural History). He spent most of his working life there as Assistant Keeper of Mammals.\n\nIn 1912, on an expedition to Vietnam, he discovered and named the Tonkin Snub-nosed Langur. He joined the British Army in 1915, and obtained a commission in the 19th London Regiment. He was injured in a bomb accident so he did not fight in the First World War.\n\nIn 1919, he returned to the museum. He was an adviser to the British group at the 1933 International Conference for the Preservation of the Flora and Fauna of Africa. This was the most important meeting about protecting nature before the Second World War. Dollman helped to decide which animal species needed protecting.\n\nHe travelled and wrote a lot with Walter Rothschild. Some of their writing included \"New mammals from Dutch New Guinea\" (which was published in 1932) and a book about tree kangaroos which was called \"The Genus Dendrolagus\" (which was published in 1936). He was also a very good artist, showing pictures at the Royal Academy. He also drew pictures for his own scientific writings.\n\nDollman died on 21 March 1942 when he was 65 years old.\n\nDollman is the binomial authority (the first person to name a species) for the following animals:\n\n\n", "id": "222195", "title": "Guy Dollman"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222196", "text": "Jentink's dormouse\n\nJentink's Dormouse (Graphiurus crassicaudatus) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Cameroon, Ivory Coast, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, Togo. It is also sometimes found in Benin, Equatorial Guinea and Sierra Leone. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests. \n\n", "id": "222196", "title": "Jentink's dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222197", "text": "Johnston's African dormouse\n\nThe Johnston's African Dormouse (\"Graphiurus johnstoni\") is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Malawi, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. Its natural habitat is moist savanna. \n\n", "id": "222197", "title": "Johnston's African dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222198", "text": "Kellen's dormouse\n\nKellen's Dormouse (Graphiurus kelleni) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Angola, Burkina Faso, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Gambia, Kenya, Mali, Nigeria, Niger, Senegal, Tanzania, and Uganda.\nIts natural habitats are subtropical or tropical dry forests and moist and dry savanna. \n\n", "id": "222198", "title": "Kellen's dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222199", "text": "Lorrain dormouse\n\nThe Lorrain Dormouse (Graphiurus lorraineus) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Cameroon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Ghana, Guinea-Bissau, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, and Uganda. Its natural habitats are subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests, moist savanna, and plantations . \n\n", "id": "222199", "title": "Lorrain dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222200", "text": "Monard's dormouse\n\nMonard's Dormouse (Graphiurus monardi) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Angola, Democratic Republic of the Congo, and possibly Zambia. Its natural habitat is moist savanna. \n\n", "id": "222200", "title": "Monard's dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222202", "text": "Woodland dormouse\n\nThe Woodland dormouse (Graphiurus murinus) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is endemic to (lives only in) South Africa. It is also known as the \"African dwarf dormouse\", the \"African pygmy dormouse\" or the \"Micro squirrel\". They are sometimes kept as pets, but they are harder to look after than other pet rodents.\n\nIts natural habitats are subtropical or tropical moist montanes and rivers.\n\n", "id": "222202", "title": "Woodland dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222203", "text": "Anselme Gaëtan Desmarest\n\nAnselme Gaëtan Desmarest (1784 – 4 June 1838) was a French zoologist and author. He was the son of Nicolas Desmarest.\n\nDesmarest published \"Histoire Naturelle des Tangaras, des Manakins et des Todiers\" (1805), \"Considérations générales sur la classe des crustacés\" (1825), \"Mammalogie ou description des espèces des Mammifères.\" Paris: Veuve Agasse(1820), and \"Dictionnaire des Sciences Naturelles\" (1816–30, with André Marie Constant Duméril). His son Eugène Anselme Sébastien Léon Desmarest (1816–1889) was also a zoologist.\n", "id": "222203", "title": "Anselme Gaëtan Desmarest"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222204", "text": "Nicolas Desmarest\n\nNicolas Desmarest (16 September 1725 – 20 September 1815) was a French geologist.\n\nDesmarest was born at Soulaines in the department of Aube in France. He was educated at the college of the Oratorians of Troyes and Paris. While doing this, he earned money by teaching, to pay for his education. \n\nBuffon's \"Theory of the Earth\" interested him, and in 1753 he won a prize by writing an essay on the ancient connection between England and France. A lot of people were interested in this. He was given job studying and reporting on manufacturing in different countries. In 1788 he became inspector-general of the industries of France.\n\nDemarest travelled around on foot to learn more about the Earth's structure. In 1763 he noticed that the basalt rocks in Auvergne were old lava streams. He noticed that they were similar to the columns of the Giant's Causeway in Ireland. He knew that they were evidence of the operations of old volcanoes which were no longer active. \n\nIn 1774 he published an essay on the subject (with a geological map) after visiting the area a few times. He then discussed the changes that the rocks had gone through because of weathering and erosion. This was the first time that anyone had talked about valleys being made because streams which flowed through them eroding the rocks.\n\nHe died in Paris in 1815. In 1823 his son Anselme Gaëtan Desmarest published a new and better edition of his map.\n", "id": "222204", "title": "Nicolas Desmarest"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222205", "text": "Eugène Desmarest\n\nEugène Anselme Sébastien Léon Desmarest (1816–1889) was a French zoologist and entomologist. He was the son of Anselme Gaëtan Desmarest (1734–1838).\n\nPartial list:\n\n", "id": "222205", "title": "Eugène Desmarest"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222206", "text": "Nagtglas's African dormouse\n\nThe Nagtglas's African Dormouse (\"Graphiurus nagtglasii\") is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Cameroon, Central African Republic, Ghana, Liberia, Nigeria, Sierra Leone and sometimes in Gabon. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests. \n\n", "id": "222206", "title": "Nagtglas's African dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222207", "text": "Clergyman\n\nA clergyman is an ordained minister of the Anglican Church, or of some other Protestant churches. 'Vicar' and 'pastor' are other possibilities. 'Rector' is used in some Scottish Presbyterian churches. 'The clergy' is often used as a group term. The word 'cleric', meaning a clerk, is the root term. It comes from the fact that all clerics could read and write, at a time when this was a rare skill.\n\nBy general use and convention, Anglican ministers are not called priests. This is because the unqualified term 'priest' or 'father' is widely used as referring to the Catholic Church. Of course, in modern times an Anglican minister may be female, in which case the term 'reverend' or 'minister' may be used.\n", "id": "222207", "title": "Clergyman"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222212", "text": "Endemism\n\nEndemism is an ecological word meaning that a plant or animal lives only in a particular location, such as a specific island, habitat type, nation or other defined zone. For example, many species of lemur are endemic to the island of Madagascar. \n\nThere are two types of endemism - paleoendemism and neoendemism. \"Paleoendemism\" means that a species used to live in a large area but now lives only in a smaller area. \"Neoendemism\" means that a species has recently appeared which is closely related to the main species or one that has formed following hybridization and is now classified as a separate species. This is a common process in plants especially those which exhibit polyploidy.\n\nThe opposite of endemism is cosmopolitan distribution.\n\nEndemic types are most likely to develop on islands because they are isolated. This includes remote island groups, like the Hawaiian Islands, the Galápagos Islands, and Socotra. Endemism can also occur in areas which are separated from other similar areas like the highlands of Ethiopia, or large bodies of water like Lake Baikal.\n\nEndemics can easily become endangered or extinct because of only living in a small area. They are also vulnerable to the actions of man, including the introduction of new organisms. There were millions of both Bermuda petrels and \"Bermuda cedars\" (actually junipers) in Bermuda when it was settled at the start of the 17th century. By the end of the century, the petrels were thought to be extinct. Cedars, whose numbers were low as a result of centuries of shipbuilding, were nearly made extinct in the 20th Century by the introduction of a parasite. Both petrels and cedars are very rare today, as are other species endemic or native to Bermuda.\n\nEndemic organisms are not the same as indigenous organisms — a species that is indigenous to somewhere may be native to other locations as well. An introduced species, also known as a naturalized or exotic species, is an organism that is not indigenous to a given place or area.\n\nAccording to the World Wildlife Fund, the following ecoregions have the highest percentage of endemic plants:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSome of the principal threats to these special ecosystems are:\n\n", "id": "222212", "title": "Endemism"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222213", "text": "Namtap\n\nThe Namtap or Spectacled Dormouse (Graphiurus ocularis) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family, and one of the four Dormouse species which are endemic to South Africa. \n\nThe Namtap has a bushy tale like a squirrel, a fairly short muzzle (the part of the Dormouse's head which includes the nose, mouth and jaws), small ears and soft fur. Its face has white and grey marks, with dark rings (like spectacles) around its eyes. Its cheeks, underparts and the upper surfaces of its paws are white. Its tail is usually has a white tip. \n\nIt is only found in western South Africa. It can usually be found in rocky habitats, as well as in trees and outbuildings. It is nocturnal and it is good at climbing. It mainly eats seeds, other plant material and invertebrates.\n", "id": "222213", "title": "Namtap"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222214", "text": "I Married Marge\n\n\"I Married Marge\" is the twelfth episode of \"The Simpsons\" third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on December 26, 1991. In this episode, Marge worries that she may yet again be pregnant and drives to \"Dr. Hibbert's\" office. While waiting, Homer begins to tell Bart, Lisa, and Maggie the story of how he and Marge got married and how Bart was born.\n", "id": "222214", "title": "I Married Marge"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222216", "text": "Arduino\n\nArduino is an open-source electronics prototyping platform based on flexible, easy-to-use hardware and software. It's intended for artists, designers, hobbyists and anyone interested in creating interactive objects or environments.\nArduino can sense the environment by receiving input from a variety of sensors and can affect its surroundings by controlling lights, motors, and other actuators. The microcontroller on the board is programmed using the Arduino programming language (based on Wiring) and the Arduino development environment (based on Processing). Arduino projects can be stand-alone or they can communicate with software running on a computer (e.g. Flash, Processing, MaxMSP).\n\nThe boards can be built by hand or purchased preassembled; the software can be downloaded for free. The hardware reference designs (CAD files) are available under an open-source license, you are free to adapt them to your needs.\n\nArduino received an Honorary Mention in the Digital Communities section of the 2006 Ars Electronica Prix. The Arduino founders are: Massimo Banzi, David Cuartielles, Tom Igoe, Gianluca Martino, and David Mellis. Credits\n\nThe machine part is open source, which means that anybody can make their own version of an Arduino machine for free. An official arduino costs around US$30. The original Arduino is made by a company in Italy called \"Smart Projects\" but other types of Arduino boards have been designed by SparkFun Electronics, an American company.\n\nSometimes, people will make other machines that go on top of an Arduino board and let the board do more things. These are called \"Arduino shields\". They can do different things, like let an Arduino machine connect to the internet, or add a touchscreen, or let an Arduino use GPS to figure out where it is. Shields can also combine and stack on top of each other.\n\nArduinos are programmed in C or C++, using a program also called Arduino. An example program to blink a light (LED) could look like this:\nFirst, the code after \"void setup() {\" runs. This tells the arduino that pin 13 is going to be sending data out. Most Arduino boards have an LED attached to pin 13. Then, the code after the \"void loop () {\" runs. When it reaches the bottom, the code after the \"void loop\" runs again, until the Arduino is turned off. This code makes the Arduino tell the LED to turn on, wait a second, then turn off and wait another second. Since it repeats, this code will turn the LED on and off again and again.\n", "id": "222216", "title": "Arduino"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222218", "text": "Rock dormouse\n\nThe Rock Dormouse (Graphiurus platyops) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Angola, Botswana, Mozambique, South Africa, Swaziland, Zambia, and Zimbabwe. \n\n", "id": "222218", "title": "Rock dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222219", "text": "Oldfield Thomas\n\nMichael Rogers Oldfield Thomas (usually known as \"Oldfield Thomas\") FRS (February 21, 1858 – June 16, 1929) was a British zoologist.\n\nThomas worked at the Natural History Museum in their mammals department. He described about 2,000 new species and sub-species for the first time. He was given a job in the Museum Secretary's office in 1876. In 1878 he moved to the Zoological Department. In 1891 Thomas married a woman who was an heiress to a large amount of money. Having this money allowed him to hire mammal collectors and to give their specimens to the museum. In 1896 when William Henry Flower took control of the Department he hired Richard Lydekker to rearrange the exhibitions. This gave Thomas the time to concentrate on these new specimens. He committed suicide in 1929 when he was 71 years old. This was not long after the death of his wife.\n", "id": "222219", "title": "Oldfield Thomas"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222220", "text": "Stone dormouse\n\nThe Stone Dormouse (Graphiurus rupicola) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Namibia, South Africa, and sometimes in Angola. Its natural habitat is rocky areas. \n\n", "id": "222220", "title": "Stone dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222221", "text": "Silent dormouse\n\nThe Silent Dormouse (Graphiurus surdus) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Cameroon, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, and Gabon. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests. \n\n", "id": "222221", "title": "Silent dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222222", "text": "Leithiinae\n\nLeithiinae is a subfamily of dormice.\n\n", "id": "222222", "title": "Leithiinae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222223", "text": "Twin paradox\n\nThe twin paradox in physics is a thought experiment in special relativity. It involves identical twins, one of whom makes a journey into space in a high-speed rocket and returns home to find that the twin who remained on Earth has aged more. \n\nThe paradox depends upon the unspoken idea that the passage of time is the same in all circumstances. But this is not correct. Time is relative and the speed of light through a vacuum is the only constant. And the universe is relativistic, not Newtonian. Every single test which has been made has shown this.\n\n", "id": "222223", "title": "Twin paradox"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222225", "text": "Centriole\n\nThe centriole is a cytoplasmic structure in most eukaryote cells. It is involved in cell division and in the formation of cilia and flagella. Centrioles are not found in vascular plants and in most fungi.\n\nMost centrioles are nine sets of microtubule triplets, arranged in a cylinder. A pair of centrioles, arranged perpendicularly and surrounded by a mass of dense material makes up the centrosome.\n", "id": "222225", "title": "Centriole"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222226", "text": "Centrosome\n\nIn cell biology, the centrosome is an organelle that is the main place where cell microtubules are organized. They occur only in plant and animal cells. Also, it regulates the cell division cycle, the stages which lead up to cell division. \n\nThe centrosome was discovered by Edouard Van Beneden in 1883, and was described and named in 1888 by Theodor Boveri. \n\nThe centrosome has apparently only evolved in metazoan eukaryotic cells. Fungi and plants use other structures to organize their microtubules. Although the centrosome has a key role in efficient mitosis in animal cells, it is not necessary.\n\nA centrosome is composed of two centrioles at right angles to each another. They are surrounded by a shapeless mass of protein.\n\nThe centrosome is copied only once per cell cycle so that each daughter cell inherits one centrosome, containing two centrioles. The centrosome replicates during the interphase of the cell cycle. During the prophase of mitosis, the centrosomes migrate to opposite poles of the cell. The mitotic spindle then forms between the two centrosomes. Upon division, each daughter cell receives one centrosome. \n\nInterestingly, centrosomes are not required for the progression of mitosis. When the centrosomes are irradiated by a laser, mitosis proceeds with a normal spindle. In the absence of the centrosome, the microtubules of the spindle are focused by motors allowing the formation of a bipolar spindle. Many cells can completely undergo interphase without centrosomes.\n\nAlthough centrosomes are not required for mitosis or survival of the cell, \"they are required for survival of the organism\". Cells without centrosomes lack certain microtubules. With centrosome the cell division is much more accurate and efficient. Some cell types arrest in the following cell cycle when centrosomes are absent, though this doesn't always happen.\n", "id": "222226", "title": "Centrosome"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222227", "text": "Vesicle\n\nA vesicle is a bubble of liquid within a cell. More technically, a vesicle is a small, intracellular, membrane-enclosed sac that stores or transports substances within a cell. Vesicles form naturally because of the properties of lipid membranes. Vesicles can fuse with the plasma membrane, and release their contents outside the cell. Vesicles can also fuse with other organelles within the cell. \n\nA vesicle is sometimes formed when the cell is doing endocytosis. Endocytosis is a process in which a cell's membrane takes in a particle from the outside and brings it inside the cell with a vesicle around it. \n", "id": "222227", "title": "Vesicle"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222232", "text": "Forest dormouse\n\nThe Forest dormouse (\"Dryomys nitedula\") is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family found throughout much of Eurasia.\n", "id": "222232", "title": "Forest dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222233", "text": "Cytoskeleton\n\nThe cytoskeleton is a kind of scaffolding present in all cells. It is made of protein.\n\nIt keeps cell shape, protects the cell and enables cells to move (using structures such as flagella and cilia). It helps transport inside the cytoplasm (the movement of vesicles and organelles, for example), and in cell division. The concept and the term (\"cytosquelette\", in French) was introduced by French embryologist Paul Wintrebert in 1931.\n\nEukaryote cells contain three main kinds of cytoskeletal filaments, which are \"microfilaments\" (actin filaments), \"intermediate filaments\", and \"microtubules\". They give the cell structure and shape. Cytoskeletal elements interact closely and often with the cell membrane and the endoplasmic reticulum.\n", "id": "222233", "title": "Cytoskeleton"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222238", "text": "Woolly dormouse\n\nThe Woolly dormouse (Dryomys laniger) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family.\nIt is endemic to Turkey.\n\n", "id": "222238", "title": "Woolly dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222260", "text": "Chaetocauda\n\nThe Chinese dormouse or Sichuan dormouse (\"Chaetocauda sichuanensis\") is a species of dormouse that lives in subalpine mixed forests in northern Sichuan, China. \n\nOnly two two female specimens have even been caught. These were both caught in the Wanglang Natural Reserve and was first described by Wang Youzhi in 1985. Corbet and Hill (1991, 1992) relisted it under a new genus as \"Chaetocauda sichuanensis\". It is the only member of the genus Chaetocauda.\n\nThe two specimens had the following measurements:\n\nCjaetocauda is nocturnal (it is awake at night) and arboreal (lives in trees). It nests in trees about above the ground and the two specimens were found at an altitude of more than above sea level. It is classified as endangered by the IUCN as of the 2004 Red List due to its small isolated habitat.\n\n\n", "id": "222260", "title": "Chaetocauda"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222264", "text": "Forest dormice\n\nThe forest dormice, genus Dryomys, are a genus of dormouse found throughout much of Eurasia. They are usually found in forests or thickets. \n\nThe length of the head and body is , and the length of the tail is . The animals weigh .\n\nThese dormice hibernate in tree hollows or in burrows. At night they nest in low branches or shrubs. They spend most of their lives in trees. They are nocturnal animals. \n\nThey are omnivorous feeding on seeds, acorns, buds, invertebrates, eggs, and baby birds. \n\nForest dormice in southern areas breed from March to December. Forest dormice in northern areas breed from May to August. Gestation takes 21-30 days and 2-5 young are born at a time.\n\n\n", "id": "222264", "title": "Forest dormice"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222266", "text": "Eliomys\n\nEliomys is a genus of rodent in the Gliridae family.\nIt contains the following species:\n\n", "id": "222266", "title": "Eliomys"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222267", "text": "Asian garden dormouse\n\nThe Asian garden dormouse (\"Eliomys melanurus\") is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is found in Algeria, Egypt, Iraq, Israel, Jordan, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Tunisia, and Turkey.\nIts natural habitats are temperate forests, subtropical or tropical dry shrubland, Mediterranean-type shrubby vegetation, and rocky areas.\n\n", "id": "222267", "title": "Asian garden dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222268", "text": "Johann Andreas Wagner\n\nJohann Andreas Wagner (1797 – 1861) was a German palaeontologist, zoologist and archaeologist. \n\nWagner was a professor at the University of Munich. He was also the of the Zoologische Staatssammlung (the German State Zoology Collection).\nHe was the author of \"Die Geographische Verbreitung der Säugethiere Dargestellt\" (1844-46).\n\n\n", "id": "222268", "title": "Johann Andreas Wagner"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222271", "text": "Garden dormouse\n\nThe garden dormouse (\"Eliomys quercinus\") is a rodent in the dormouse family.\n\nGarden Dormice are usually in length, with the tail adding another . It weighs . The coat is gray or brown and it is white underneath. The garden dormouse has black eye marks, large ears (for a rodent), short hair, and a white tassel at the end of the tail.\n\nThe garden dormouse's \"main\" habitat is the forest (and not usually gardens), though it can also be found in fruit-growing regions. It is very common in southern Europe, but its range (the area in can be found) goes up to the north of Europe. Garden dormice are often found in the Alps, in the Bavaria Forest, and in the Ore Mountains. \n\nThe species can also be found in northern Germany, but the population there is low. In the Netherlands, it is nearly extinct. In 2007 only nine animals were found in two woods in Limburg. It used to be very common in this area. Scientists\nthink that his is because the landscape has changed. They also think that climate change might be a reason, because it interrupts the Dormice's hibernation.\n\nGarden dormice are mostly nocturnal. They sleep in spherical nests in trees during the day. At night they look for food like larger insects (grasshoppers and beetle), snails, eggs, baby birds, small mice, and spiders. They also eat berries, fruit, and nuts (like acorns and beechnuts). While omnivorous, the diet of dormice contains a bit more animal protein than vegetation.\n\nThe mating period is from April to June. To show that she is ready for mating, the female squeaks loudly. The babies are usually born in litters of three to seven, after a gestation period of 23 days. The babies are blind and have no fur when they are born. They open their eyes after about eighteen days. They are nursed until they are one month old. When they are two months old, they live on their own. They become ready to mate when they are a year old. They will normally live for about five years.\n\nMale Garden dormice may eat a rival dormouse during the mating season. Cannibalism sometimes happens when the animal is coming out of hibernation.\n\nOn the islands of the Mediterranean Sea there are a few subspecies of garden dormouse. They are all very hard to find. These subspecies are:\n\nThe Garden dormice in western Asia and north Africa have been separated into their own species \"Eliomys melanurus\".\n\n", "id": "222271", "title": "Garden dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222275", "text": "Myomimus\n\nMyomimus is a genus of dormouse in the Gliridae family. \nIt contains the following species:\n", "id": "222275", "title": "Myomimus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222276", "text": "Masked mouse-tailed dormouse\n\nThe Masked mouse-tailed dormouse (\"Myomimus personatus\") is a species of dormouse in the Gliridae family. It is found in Iran and Turkmenistan. \n\n", "id": "222276", "title": "Masked mouse-tailed dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222279", "text": "Sergej Ognew\n\nSergej Ivanovich Ognew (1886–1951) was a Russian zoologist and naturalist, remembered for his work on mammalogy. He graduated from Moscow University in 1910. In 1910 he also published his first book. In 1928, he became a professor at the Pedagogical Institute. He published many books for education about zoology and economy. His most important work which was to be called \"Mammals of Russia and adjacent territories\" was never completed.\n\n", "id": "222279", "title": "Sergej Ognew"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222281", "text": "Roach's mouse-tailed dormouse\n\nRoach's mouse-tailed dormouse (or simply 'Mouse-tailed dormouse') is \"Myomimus roachi\", a species of dormouse in the Gliridae family. It is found in Bulgaria, Greece, and Turkey. \n\n", "id": "222281", "title": "Roach's mouse-tailed dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222287", "text": "Charles Spence Bate\n\nCharles Spence Bate, or Spence Bate, FRS (March 16, 1819 – July 29, 1889) was a British zoologist and dentist, who lived in Swansea and Plymouth. He was an expert on the crustacea. He often wrote to Charles Darwin, mainly about their shared interest in barnacles. He wrote \"\"A history of the British sessile-eyed Crustacea\"\" with J. O. Westwood.\n\nA number of species are named after him:\n", "id": "222287", "title": "Charles Spence Bate"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222289", "text": "Flag of Bangladesh\n\nThe national flag of Bangladesh (Bengali: বাংলাদেশের জাতীয় পতাকা) was adopted officially on 17 January 1972. The red disc is for the sun rising over Bengal. It also is for the blood of those who died for the independence of Bangladesh. The green field stands for the lushness of the land of Bangladesh.\n", "id": "222289", "title": "Flag of Bangladesh"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222290", "text": "Setzer's mouse-tailed dormouse\n\nThe Setzer's mouse-tailed dormouse (\"Myomimus setzeri\") is a species of dormouse in the Gliridae family. It is endemic to Iran. \n\n\n", "id": "222290", "title": "Setzer's mouse-tailed dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222291", "text": "Desert dormouse\n\nThe desert dormouse (\"Selevinia betpakdalaensis\") is a species of rodent in the dormouse family Gliridae.\nWhen it was first found, the species was placed in its own family, the Seleviniidae, but now it is considered to be a dormouse. It is the only species in the genus \"Selevinia\".\n\nIt is endemic to Kazakhstan.\n\n", "id": "222291", "title": "Desert dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222295", "text": "Glirinae\n\nGlirinae is a subfamily of dormice (\"Gliridae\").\n\nIt contains two genera, \"Glirulus\" and \"Glis\". These genera have one species each: \"Glirulus japonicus\" (the Japanese dormouse) and \"Glis glis\" (the edible dormouse).\n", "id": "222295", "title": "Glirinae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222297", "text": "Japanese dormouse\n\nThe Japanese dormouse (Glirulus japonicus) is a species of rodent in the Gliridae family. It is the only species in the genus Glirulus. It is endemic to Japan. \nIts natural habitat is temperate forests. In Japanese it is called \"Yamane\" (山鼠). It has the special ability of running at great speed upside down, underneath branches. Its main food is nectar or pollen, although nursing females will eat small insects.\n\n", "id": "222297", "title": "Japanese dormouse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222299", "text": "Heinrich Rudolf Schinz\n\nHeinrich Rudolf Schinz (March 30, 1777 - March 8, 1861) was a Swiss physician and naturalist.\n\nSchinz was born at Zurich and studied medicine at Würzburg and Jena. In 1798 he returning to Zurich to work as a doctor. In 1804 he became a teacher at the medical school. In 1833 he became professor of natural history at the University of Zurich.\n\nSchinz was also curator of the Natural History Society of Zurich. He also wrote a lot of important zoological books between 1824 and 1852. These included \"Das Thierreich\" (1821-4), \"Naturgeschichte und Abbildungen der Reptilien\" (1833-4), and\n\"Europäsche Fauna\" (1840). Karl Joseph Brodtmann made the pictures for these books.\n\n", "id": "222299", "title": "Heinrich Rudolf Schinz"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222315", "text": "List of colonial heads of The Gambia\n\nThis is a list of colonial administrators in The Gambia from when Fort James was created by the United Kingdom in 1815 until The Gambia's independence in 1965.\n\n\nIn 1821, The Gambia became a British colony. A lieutenant governor was appointed in 1829. They reported to the Governor of Sierra Leone.\n\nBetween 1843 and 1866, a governor was appointed who was independent of the Governor of Sierra Leone.\n\nIn 1866 the job of governor was replaced with that of an administrator who reported to the Governor of Sierra Leone.\n\nIn 1901, an independent governor was again created.\n\nIn 1965, The Gambia achieved independence from the United Kingdom. After independence, the viceroy in The Gambia was the Governor-General of the Gambia.\n\n", "id": "222315", "title": "List of colonial heads of The Gambia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222320", "text": "List of colonial heads of Sierra Leone\n\nThis is a list of colonial administrators in Sierra Leone from the establishment of the Province of Freedom by the Committee for the Relief of the Black Poor in 1787 until Sierra Leone's independence in 1961.\n\nOn 14 May 1787, the Province of Freedom was founded by the Committee for the Relief of the Black Poor for freed slaves.\n\nOn 22 August 1788, the Province of Freedom and the land along the Freetown peninsula was given to Captain John Taylor of the HMS \"Miro\". In 1789, it was abandoned.\n\n\nIn January 1791, Granville Town was taken back by the St. George Bay Company.\n\nIn 1792, Freetown was founded as the main town of the newly established Colony of Sierra Leone\n\n\n\nOn 5 July 1799, the Province of Freedom was renamed Sierra Leone.\n\nOn 1 January 1808, Sierra Leone (including the coastal area) becomes a Crown colony of the United Kingdom, and the Sierra Leone Company stopped being in charge.\n\nOn 17 October 1821, Sierra Leone territory became part of British West African Territories. Its Governorship was held by the Governor (from 1827 until 1837 Lieutenant governor) of Sierra Leone.\n\n\n\n\nOn 13 January 1850, Sierra Leone becomes a separate crown colony again.\n\nOn 19 February 1866, Sierra Leone territory becomes part of the British West African Settlements. Its Governorship was held by the Governor of Sierra Leone.\n\nOn 17 December 1874, British West African Settlements became known as British West Africa Settlements.\n\nOn 28 November 1888, the Sierra Leone became a separate crown colony again.\n\nOn 24 August 1895, the land by the coast of Sierra Leone became a British protectorate, and the crown colony was renamed as the Sierra Leone Colony and Protectorate.\n\nIn 1961, Sierra Leone achieved independence from the United Kingdom. After independence, the viceroy in Sierra Leone was the Governor-General of Sierra Leone.\n\n\n", "id": "222320", "title": "List of colonial heads of Sierra Leone"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222321", "text": "Governor of the Bahamas\n\nThis is a list of colonial heads of the Bahamas. The first English settlement in the Bahamas was on Eleuthera. In 1670, the king gave the Bahamas to the Lords Proprietors of the Province of Carolina, but the islands were left alone. The local pirates proclaimed a 'Privateers' Republic' with Edward Teach (\"Blackbeard\") as chief magistrate in 1703. In 1717, the Bahamas became a British crown colony, and the pirates were moved out.\n\nDuring the American War of Independence, the Bahamas were occupied by both the American and Spanish armies. In 1964, the Bahamas achieved self-governance. In 1973 the Bahamas were given full independence.\n\n\nOn November 1 1670, the Bahamas were granted to the Lords Proprietors of the Province of Carolina:\n\nThe islands were mainly left alone, but the Lords Proprietors appointed Proprietary Governors to administer them:\n\nIn 1684, a joint French and Spanish fleet destroyed Charles Town (now called Nassau).\n\nFrom 1706 until July 26 1718, the Bahamas were ruled by the anarchic \"Privateer's Republic\", including:\n\nIn 1717 the Bahamas became a British crown colony. The pirates were driven out in 1718 by Woodes Rogers, the colony's first governor.\n\nIn 1969, the crown colony became the Commonwealth of the Bahama Islands.\n\nOn July 10 1973, the Bahamas achieved independence from Britain. Following independence, the viceroy in the Bahamas was the Governor-General of the Bahamas.\n\n", "id": "222321", "title": "Governor of the Bahamas"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222324", "text": "List of Governors of Barbados\n\nThis page contains a list of viceroys in Barbados from when Great Britain started a colony in 1627 by England until Barbados received independence in 1966. From 1833 to 1885, Barbados was part of the colony of the Windward Islands, and the Governor of Barbados represented the monarch in all the Windward Islands. In 1885 Barbados became an independent colony again.\n\n\nIn 1833, Barbados became part of the new colony of the Windward Islands and the Governor of Barbados became viceroy over the new colony as well.\n\n\nIn 1885, Grenada took over responsibility for the Windward Islands instead of Barbados.\n\n\nOn 29 November 1966, Barbados achieved independence from the United Kingdom. For a list of viceroys in Barbados after independence, see Governor-General of Barbados.\n\n\n", "id": "222324", "title": "List of Governors of Barbados"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222329", "text": "Centromere\n\nThe centromere is a special region of a chromosome, usually near the middle. It is where the two identical sister chromatids stay in contact as the chromosome attaches to the spindle in mitosis. The region contains specific types of DNA, which are tandem repetitive sequences (satellite DNA). These sequences bind specific proteins called \"cen\"-proteins. \n\nDuring mitosis the centromeres can be seen during the \"metaphase\" stage as a constriction at the chromosome. At this centromeric constriction the two halves of the chromosome, the sister chromatids, are held together until late metaphase.\n", "id": "222329", "title": "Centromere"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222332", "text": "Grand Cross\n\nThe phrase Grand Cross is used to describe the highest grade in many types of knighthood. Sometimes the person with the highest grade are called \"knights grand cross\" or just \"grand crosses\". Sometimes the actual medallion or ribbon is called \"the grand cross\" and not the person.\n\nIn some orders, the highest grade may be called the \"grand cordon\", \"grand collar\" or something like this. In those cases the rank of grand cross may come after another rank, but before the highest grade.\n\nAs an example:\n", "id": "222332", "title": "Grand Cross"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222338", "text": "Rhizobia\n\nRhizobia are soil bacteria which become established inside root nodules of legumes (the pea family: Fabaceae). \n\nThey fix nitrogen in a form the plant can use. Rhizobia require a plant host; they cannot independently fix nitrogen. The relationship is a classic example of symbiosis and mutualism.\n\nThe word rhizobia comes from the English root for root (rhizo) and the Ancient Greek for life (bios).\n", "id": "222338", "title": "Rhizobia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222353", "text": "Paul Steinitz\n\nPaul Steinitz (born Chichester, 25 August 1909; died Old Oxted, Surrey, 21 April 1988) was an English conductor and organist. He was one of the first musicians in the 20th century to make a careful study of the way that music by Johann Sebastian Bach should be performed so that it would sound like it used to in Bach’s day, in the early 18th century. He started a choir called the London Bach Society and a group of instrumentalists called the Steinitz Bach Players. He conducted them in lots of concerts. During the space of 25 years he performed all the cantatas of J.S. Bach in London. There are over 200 of them.\n\nPaul Steinitz was born in Chichester, West Sussex, in the south of England in 1909. His father was an Anglican clergyman. He became a student at the Royal Academy of Music, studying under George Oldroyd. He was a very good organist and got his FRCO diploma in 1930. In the 1930s he was Director of Music at the church of St. Mary's Ashford, Kent. There he became very interested in the music of Bach while studying for his Doctorate \n\nIn 1946 he started the London Bach Society. Then he became Director of Music and organist at the Priory Church of St. Bartholomew-the-Great in London, which was a very old church, a lecturer at University of London and a Professor at the Royal Academy of Music.\n\nWhen Paul Steinitz founded the London Bach Society he wanted them to perform Bach’s music. Most musicians in those days played Bach in an exaggerated, romantic style, using large choirs and orchestras, playing with lots of vibrato, and with lots of changes of speed which Bach would not have done. Steinitz wanted to show people how Bach’s works should sound. From 1950 he performed them in German. When more musicians started to learn how to play period instruments he started to use these. In 1952 he conducted the first performance in Britain of Bach’s St Matthew Passion in its complete and original German form. It was all part of a movement which was known as “Back to Bach in its original form”.\nIn 1958 he started to perform all the 208 Bach cantatas that are known (it is thought 100 have been lost). He finished this project in 1987, shortly before he died. He got together a group of players which he called the Steinitz Bach Players. They were professional musicians who agreed with what Steinitz was trying to do. Every Lent they performed one of the two great Bach passions: the St Matthew Passion, or sometimes the St John Passion. He took the choir and his orchestra on tour to the USA, Israel, German Democratic Republic (twice, including performances at Bach’s own church, the St. Thomas' Church Leipzig) and Bulgaria.\n\nSteinitz did not just perform Bach’s music. He conducted music by many Baroque composers as well as modern composers such as Igor Stravinsky, Peter Maxwell Davies, John Tavener, Stanley Glasser (sung in Zulu) and his own pupil Nicholas Maw.\n\nSteinitz wrote a lot about music. He wrote a chapter on 18th century German church music in \"The New Oxford History of Music\", he wrote several books to show students how to write harmony, and books on how to perform Bach’s music called \"Bach’s Passions\", \"Bach for Choirs\", and \"Performing Bach’s Vocal Music\".\n\nPaul Steinitz had many honours. He was a Fellow of the Royal Academy of Music and Royal College of Organists. He was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in 1985, the year in which Bach’s 300th birthday was celebrated.\n\nAt the end of his concerts, when the audience applauded, he would often hold up a picture of Bach, so that the audience was thanking Bach for his music.\n\nDr. Steinitz died in April 1988 at home in his lovely 18th century cottage in Old Oxted, just south of London. He was a Quaker who believed strongly that music could help to bring peace in the world.\n\nThere is a public memorial to him in the Cloister of St Bartholomew-the-Great, West Smithfield, London.\n\nToday Steinitz’ wife Margaret continues her husband's work with the London Bach Society, of which Steinitz Bach Players is an integral part. To reflect modern Bach scholarship and continue Dr. Steinitz's work along the lines he had planned, the original choir was disbanded to make way for smaller professional choirs - more Bach in its original form. She also founded an annual Bachfest in 1990, which is presented each autumn.\n\n", "id": "222353", "title": "Paul Steinitz"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222365", "text": "London Bach Society\n\nThe London Bach Society is a society devoted to performing the music of Johann Sebastian Bach.\n\nThe London Bach Society was started in 1946 by Paul Steinitz because he wanted to perform Bach in a style which was like the way it sounded in Bach's time. Bach lived from 1685 to 1750. By the 20th century a lot of things had changed in music. Choirs and orchestras were much bigger and instruments were made differently. Steinitz wanted to get back to the sort of sound that Bach would have known. He started a choir called the London Bach Society so that they could give concerts of Bach's music, making it sound much clearer than it did with huge, romantic choirs.\n\nThe choir was formed in 1947. The singers were good amateur singers. Steinitz rehearsed them a lot until they were very good. The London Bach Society (LBS) gave many concerts of Bach's music, as well as singing music by other Baroque composers such as Handel, Telemann and Heinrich Schütz. They also sang works by modern composers such as Stravinsky, John Tavener and Nicholas Maw. Between 1958 and 1987 the LBS choir performed all the cantatas by Bach which survive. 208 of them are known. Many others have been lost. The choir performed one of Bach's passions every Lent, usually the \"St Matthew Passion\". They also went on tour, travelling to the USA, Israel, Bulgaria and twice to the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) where they sang at St Thomas Church, Leipzig, where Bach had been Director of Music.\nIn 1968 Steinitz got a group of players together, calling them the Steinitz Bach Players. They were professional musicians who understood how to play Baroque music. Gradually he was able to add more and more historical instruments to his concerts, such as the natural/clarino trumpet, oboe da caccia, baroque flute and sackbuts. By 1985 there were enough professional players of Baroque instruments in England for the LBS choir to be able to perform the St Matthew Passion with a complete orchestra of period instruments in Wells Cathedral and later in 1987 at Westminster Abbey\n\nAfter Steinitz's death in 1989 there was no more choir, but the society still continues. Today they organize a festival of Bach's music every year, called \"Bachfest\" (German for \"Bach Festival\").\n\n", "id": "222365", "title": "London Bach Society"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222374", "text": "Rodgau\n\nRodgau is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. It is the largest city of the district by area and by population as well.\n\nRodgau is in the \"Rhine Main area\" 30 km southeast of Frankfurt am Main. The whole area of the town is 65.04 km large and it is 130 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.\n\nAbout 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor.\n\nThe town consists out of 5 former independent villages. On 1 January 1977 they were united and became the \"municipality of Rodgau\". On 15 September 1979 city rights were given to the municipality.\n\nThe former villages, now urban districts, are from north to south: Weiskirchen, Hainhausen, Jügesheim, Dudenhofen and Nieder-Roden. They all lie by a small creek, the \"Rodau\", flowing through the city from south to north. Rodgau got its name from this creek. The ending \"-gau\" means \"area\" or \"district\". \"Rod-\" is a hint to the former landscape. The German verb \"roden\" means \"cutting down trees to cultivate land\". \"Rod-\" is also part of the name of Nieder-\"Rod\"en.\n\nThe neighbours of Rodgau are: \n\nRodgau has 43,047 inhabitants (2008). Nearly 10% of the people living here are from foreign countries. They come from 52 different nations. 39% of the people are of catholic religion, 25.5% are of protestant religion and 35.5% have another or no religion.\n\nThe climate of the town is mild with an average temperature of 10.5 °C. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.\n\nSome local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: \"Hessisch\"). This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every village had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.\n\nThe first settlements were build in the 8th century. Later in the 12th and 13th century the names of the settlements were written down in documents. During the times the villages belonged to different owners. Because of the reformation the people of the village of \"Dudenhofen\" became protestant, but all the others remained catholic. This led to the situation, that the Dudenhofen people married partners from nearby Babenhausen, Dietzenbach and other protestant places but did not have relatives in the catholic Rodgau villages. Around 1830 the settlements had a total population of about 4,000 people. In 1939 the amount of inhabitants was about 11,500. It increased to about 34,000 in 1970 and to about 45,000 at the end of the 2000s.\n\nFormerly the people in the Rodgau area were farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore, most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical engineering. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly.\n\nAfter world war II the Rhine Main area was one of the hot spots in Germany because of its central location and its traffic opportunities. Many companies settled down because of the Rhine Main airport and the motorways connecting the region with all parts of Germany. From the 1960s on the Rodgau villages were a huge development area, especially in Nieder-Roden and Jügesheim. Lots of small and middle seized companies started or moved to the area giving jobs to the people. Houses were built and people from other parts of Germany or from other countries came to the area for working and living. The fields near the villages were needed for building and the prices for the land exploded in the 1970s. All this increased the living conditions dramatically.\n\nThe growing villages formed an urban areal and in the late 1970s the municipality of Rodgau was shaped. Since then the former villagers and the new residents slowly began to develop a Rodgau identity. Most of the foreign people at first came from Italy, Spain and Portugal, later from Yugoslavia and Greece, then from Turkey. Often the male members came to earn money and send it to their family abroad. In many cases the families moved to Germany later, settled down and got German citizens, bought houses or built one. Only few went back to their home countries. The children went to German schools and are nowadays regular members of the community.\n\nThe administration of the formerly independent villages was centralized and the new city hall is in the central part of Rodgau, Jügesheim. There are citizen offices in every former village, called \"Anlaufstelle\" to deal with minor affairs.\n\nHead of the city is a mayor (CDU). The parliament has 45 seats. Last elections in 2006 had the following results:\n\n\nRodgau is ruled by a \"center-right\" alliance of CDU and FDP. \n\nThe city government and the mayor got problems because after the parliament elections three members of the CDU delegates left the CDU parliamentary group. The following political trouble influenced the later mayor elections (2009) and led to a new mayor, now from the SPD. He will start in April 2010.\n\nThe coat of arms was given to the city in 1978. It stands for the former villages and their religion. From bottom left to top right runs a silvery band. It is the picture of the creek \"Rodau\". The fife stars on the band are the picture of the fife villages lying by the creek.\n\nTop left is the picture of a luther rose. It is a religious symbol and it stands for the protestant religion of Dudenhofen. Bottom right is a picture of a wheel. This is not a religious symbol. But it stands for the catholic religion of Weiskirchen, Hainhausen, Jügesheim and Nieder-Roden.\n\nBoth pictures are standing for the former owners of the villages. The rose stands for the Count of Hanau and later the Count of Darmstadt. The wheel comes from the archbishop of Mainz. The rose is on one side of the creek and the wheel is opposite to it on the other side of the creek. This means that the villages had trouble and fights because of their different religion.\n\nThe two main fields of Rodgau culture are the surrounding nature and the peoples clubs. It is typically German, that most of the people of Rodgau are a member of one or more of the clubs.\n\nThese associations have a focus on singing, sports, orchestra music, socker, breeding pet animals, dancing and many other. There are about 50 clubs in Rodgau, where people come together and spend their free time. The associations are an important part of the social life of the city, especially for the people of the former villages partly to keep their villager identity. The clubs are open to new members, who like to share the focus and to develope social contacts.\n\nRodgau is surrounded by large forests. On weekend many people go there for a walk or make trips by bicycle on the narrow lanes which are leading all through the woods. Often there are places for doing sports or having a barbecue. The facilities are kept kleen and in order by work departments of the city administration.\n\nBecause of the village history there are no theaters or museums in the city, but there are well known ones in the cities nearby, mostly in Frankfurt (Senckenbergmuseum; on natural history), Offenbach (Ledermuseum; on leather handycraft and artswork) and Darmstadt (Theater). There are no famous buildings in Rodgau but some architecture (stile of buildings) typical for the region. The old churches of the villages and the framework houses are worth to look at.\n\nThere are five protestant and six catholic churches in the city. For the Muslim there are two mosques, one in Nieder-Roden and one in Jügesheim.\n\nRodgau has two cinemas, many restaurants of different style, bars and some dancefloors.\n\nOnce in the year in January and February the whole region is celebrating carnival, the local name is \"Fasenacht\" or \"Fastnacht\". It is mostly a tradition of catholic areas. The local names come from a period named \"Fastenzeit\" (a time of fasting) some weeks before Easter, when one should do fasting. The celebrations are always ending on Tuesday midnight and the fasting period starts on the following Wednesday, named \"Aschermittwoch\".\n\nIn autumn every village has an extra weekend to celebrate. It is the memorial to the opening of their church. The feasts are named \"Kirchweih\" or - in the local dialect - \"Kerb\". In former times great autumn fairs were held on that weekend and the people, especially the young ones of the nearby places, went to the feasts to meet each other in the village, to have pleasure, to dance together and make friends.\n\nDuring late spring and summer many small feasts are celebrated on weekend, mostly in the forests at the barbecue places. They are arranged by the local clubs and associations, even by the local political parties. They are open to the public and people go there to socialize, having a meal and drinking some beer.\n\nThe most special and expensive vegetable of the region is asparagus, which loves the poor sandy soil. It is gathered in May and June. Because of the same reason the region has a lot of potato dishes. Some of them are very special and only available on special occasions like the \"Bauernkeeskuche\" (farmers cheese pie). It is a sort of salty potato pie, that is made with a bread dough.\n\nThe traffic in Rodgau runs mostly individual by car. A lot of people are working in nearby cities. They have to drive to their jobs in Frankfurt, Offenbach or other big places. They use the motorway \"A3\" running through the north of Rodgau.\n\nEast along the city runs the B45 from north to south, a motorway-like street connecting all the urban districts with the motorway A3 and the cities of Offenbach, Frankfurt and Hanau to the north and Darmstadt to the south. The suburban railway no. 1 (German: \"S-Bahn-Linie 1\") runs to Offenbach and, since 2003 directly to Frankfurt. A poor bus system (a single line) connects the urban districts frequently. Rodgau can be easyly reached by street from most other parts of Germany. This was one reason for its fast development in the past.\n\nThe city has no own daily newspaper. There are the \"Offenbach-Post\" and the \"Frankfurter Rundschau\", both with additional pages (supplement) about Rodgau. The Offenbach-Post supplement is named \"Rodgau-Post\". It comes weekly on Thursday. There are two weekly papers for free which are brought to every house: The \"Rodgau-Zeitung\" and the \"Bürgerblatt\". The \"Dreieich-Spiegel\" also comes to the houses for free and has a part with Rodgau things. There is a quarterly city magazine \"mein rodgau\", with articles about people, sports, culture and life style.\n\nRadio information comes by the radio station \"Hessischer Rundfunk\" (\"HR\") on channel 1 to 4, \"You FM\" and \"hr-info\". Other radio stations are \"Hit Radio FFH\", also \"Radio Primavera\" in the nearby bavarian city of Aschaffenburg.\n\nRodgau does not have a hospital. The next clinic is about 7 km away in Seligenstadt. The town is short with specialist doctors. Patients often have to go to nearby cities, if they want to see a doctor on special diseases, for example a heart disease. There is a medical emergency center in Dudenhofen to give fast help in case of a heart attack.\n\nThe city has many kindergartens and primary schools in each urban district. There is a secondary school (highschool) in Dudenhofen. For colleges and universities the students have to go to the nearby cities.\n\n", "id": "222374", "title": "Rodgau"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222384", "text": "North Pacific giant octopus\n\nThe North Pacific giant octopus (\"Enteroctopus dofleini\") is a big cephalopod in the coastal North Pacific. \n\nIt usually lives at depths around lseters hey have also besSeven-arm octopus (\"Haliphron atlanticus\"). Adults usually weigh around 15 kg (33 lb), with an arm span of \n\nThey mostly eat crabs, shrimp, abalone, fish, and shellfish like scallops, clams, and mussels. In aquariums, they have been seen eating spiny dogfish (\"Squalus acanthias\"), a type of shark 3-4 feet long. Food is grabbed with its sucy rs and then crushed using its tough beak of chitin. North Pacific giant octopus are eaten by harbor seals, sea otters, and sperm whales. They usually live about 3-5 years in the wild. \n\nIt eats pears.A crab is as slimy as a North Pacific giant octopus.\n", "id": "222384", "title": "North Pacific giant octopus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222386", "text": "Chuck Palahniuk\n\nCharles Michael \"Chuck\" Palahniuk (born February 21, 1962) is an American satire author. He is well known for writing the award-winning book \"Fight Club\". It was later made into a movie directed by David Fincher. He lives in the state of Washington.\n\nPalahniuk was born in Pasco, Washington and raised in Burbank, Washington and Eastern Washington. started writing books when he was in his mid-thirties. His first book, \"Insomnia: If You Lived Here, You'd Be Home Already\", was never made into a book because he didn't think the story was very good. When he tried to write his next novel, \"Invisible Monsters\", publishers did not like it because they thought it was too scary. This made him work on his best known book, \"Fight Club\". He wrote it to try to scare the publisher even more for not publishing his book. Palahniuk wrote this story in his spare time. After first writing it as a short story, Palahniuk made it longer into a full book, which, surprising to him, was published.\n\nIn 1999, a changed version of \"Invisible Monsters\", and his fourth novel, \"Survivor\", were published. This made Palahniuk a cult figure. A few years later Palahniuk wrote his first New York Times bestseller, \"Choke\". After that, Palahniuk's later books would mostly have the same success. This success allowed him to travel and promote his books, where he reads from new and upcoming books.\n\nPalahniuk is openly gay and a lapsed Catholic.\n\n\n\n", "id": "222386", "title": "Chuck Palahniuk"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222393", "text": "Order of St Michael and St George\n\nThe most Distinguished Order of Saint Michael and Saint George is an order of chivalry. It was started on 28 April 1818 by George, Prince Regent, who became King George IV of the United Kingdom. It started when he was Prince Regent for his father, King George III.\n\nIt is named in honour of two military saints, Saint Michael and Saint George.\n\nThe Order has three classes, listed below from highest to lowest:\n\n\nIt is used to honour people who have done important things for the Commonwealth or foreign nations.\n\nPeople are \"appointed\" to the Order rather than given it. British Ambassadors to foreign nations are often appointed as KCMGs or CMGs. For example, the British Ambassador to the United States, Sir David Manning, was appointed a CMG when he worked for the British Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO).\n\nAfter his appointment as British Ambassador to the United States, he was promoted to a Knight Commander (KCMG). Often, when the Queen visits a nation, the British ambassador to that nation automatically becomes a Knight Commander of the Order, and afterwards they may use the title \"Sir\", before their name.\n\nIt is the normal award for members of the FCO.\n\nThe Order's motto is \"Auspicium melioris ævi\" (Latin for \"Token of a better age\"). Its patron saints are Saint Michael the Archangel and Saint George. One of its primary symbols is that of St Michael standing over Satan.\n\nThe Order is the sixth-most important in the British honours system, after The Most Noble Order of the Garter (the highest British honour), The Most Ancient and Most Noble Order of the Thistle, The Most Illustrious Order of St Patrick, The Most Honourable Order of the Bath, and The Most Exalted Order of the Star of India.\n\nThe Most Illustrious Order of St Patrick (for Ireland) has not been appointed since 1934 as the Republic of Ireland is no longer part of the United Kingdom. The Most Exalted Order of the Star of India has not been used since India's independence in 1947.\n\nThe Order was started to remember the British protectorate over the Ionian Islands. The Islands had come under British control in 1814. It was given its own constitution as the United States of the Ionian Islands, in 1817.\n\nThe order was to reward people, who lived on their Ionian Islands and on Malta, who worked for the King.\n\nThe protectorate ended in 1864, and the Ionian Islands became a part of Greece.\n\nThe reasons for being appointed to the Order were changed in 1868. Anyone who did important work in Queen Victoria's government (especially overseas) could be appointed. After this change, many Governors-General and Governors were appointed to the Order.\n\nThe British Sovereign is the Sovereign of the Order and appoints all other members of the Order. The sovereign follow the advice of the Government.\n\nAfter the sovereign, the next-most senior member is the Grand Master. The office used to be held by the Lord High Commissioner of the Ionian Islands, but now they are chosen by the Sovereign.\n\nGrand Masters include:\n\nThe number of members originally in the Order included:\n\nMembers of the Royal Family who are appointed to the Order are not counted as part of these limits and neither are foreigners appointed as \"honorary members\" (this means that they cannot use the title 'Sir' or 'Dame', and do not receive all the privileges of the order)\n\nThe Order has six officers:\n\nThe Order's King of Arms is not a member of the College of Arms.\n\nThe Usher of the Order is known as the Gentleman Usher of the Blue Rod. He does not perform any duties related to the House of Lords, unlike the Usher of the Order of the Garter (the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod).\n\nMembers of the Order wear decorated costumes on important occasions (such as coronations), which vary by rank:\n\nThe Sovereign will name some days \"collar days\". On these days, members attending formal events may wear the Order's collar over their military uniform or evening wear. When collars are worn (either on collar days or on formal occasions such as coronations), the badge is hung from the collar.\n\nAll collars which have been awarded since 1948 must be returned to the Central Chancery of the Orders of Knighthood. The other symbols can be kept..\n\nThe original home of the Order was the Palace of St Michael and St George in Corfu This was the home of the Lord High Commissioner of the Ionian Islands. It was also the location of the Ionian Senate meetings.\n\nSince 1906, the Order's chapel has been in St Paul's Cathedral in London. (The Cathedral also serves as home to the chapels of The Most Excellent Order of the British Empire and The Imperial Society of Knights Bachelor.) Religious services for the whole Order are held every four years. New Knights and Dames Grand Cross are 'installed' at these services (this means that they are officially appointed and make an oath of loyalty to the Sovereign).\n\nThe Sovereign and the Knights and Dames Grand Cross have stalls in the choir's area of the chapel.\n\nOver their stall, their heraldic devices are displayed: The Knight's helm, decorated with a mantling (cloth tied to the helpmet) and topped by his crest (often an animal).\n\nUnder English heraldic law, women who are not monarchs do not bear helms or crests - this is because in the past, women did not fight in wars or tournaments, so they did not have a helmet. Instead of a helmet, Dames will have a coronet (a small crown). The exact design will depend on how important the Dame's is in society.\n\nAbove the crest or coronet hangs the Knight or Dame's heraldic banner, showing the coat of arms. At the back of the stall there is a piece of brass (a \"stall plate\") displaying its occupant's name, arms and date of admission into the Order. Upon the death of a Knight, the banner, helm, mantling and crest are taken down. The stall plates are not removed, but remain permanently placed somewhere in the stall, so that the stalls of the chapel are covered with a colourful record of the Order's Knights and Dames Grand Cross since 1906.\n\nThe reredos (decorated panels) within the chapel were designed by Henry Poole, in 1927.\n\nMembers of the Order of St Michael are given positions in the order of precedence (the order in which members of the nobility should be placed in a procession or other events). Wives of male members are also given positions in the order of precedence. So are sons, daughters and daughters-in-law of Knights Grand Cross and Knights Commanders. Relatives of female members are not given any special precedence.\n\nKnights Grand Cross and Knights Commanders use the title \"Sir\" before their given name, and Dames Grand Cross and Dames Commanders use \"Dame\". For example, John Smith and Jane Doe would be called \"Sir John Smith\" and \"Dame Jane Doe\".\n\nWives of Knights may use the title \"Lady\" before their surname (for example \"Lady Smith\"), but husbands of Dames have no title.\n\nThese titles are not used by peers and princes, except when the names of peers are written out in their fullest forms. Honorary members (usually members from other countries) and clergymen do not receive the accolade or use the title.\n\nKnights and Dames Grand Cross use the post-nominal \"GCMG\". Knights Commanders and Dames Commanders use \"KCMG\" and \"DCMG\" respectively. Companions use \"CMG\". Examples are:\n\nKnights and Dames Grand Cross are also allowed to receive heraldic supporters (figures on either side of the shield, which look like they are holding it up). These may be real or imaginary animals, or human figures. They may also surround their arms with the design of the circlet (a circle bearing the motto) and the collar. The circlet is shown either outside or on top of the collar.\n\nKnights and Dames Commanders and Companions may display the circlet (but not the collar) around their arms. The badge is depicted hanging from the collar or circlet.\n\nIn the satirical British television programme, \"Yes Minister\", Jim Hacker MP is told an old joke by his Private Secretary, Bernard Woolley, about what the different post-nominals mean.\n\nIan Fleming's spy, James Bond, was appointed to the CMG, in 1953 (mentioned in the novel \"From Russia, with Love\"). He was offered the KCMG in \"The Man with the Golden Gun\", but he would not take it, as he did not wish to become a public figure.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "222393", "title": "Order of St Michael and St George"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222407", "text": "Gilbert Thomas Carter\n\nSir Gilbert Thomas Carter KCMG (Greenwich, Kent, 14 January 1848 – Barbados, 18 January 1927) was an administrative officer in the Royal Navy and later a colonial official for the British Empire.\n\nStarting as a Collector of Customs for the Gold Coast, he later became the Treasurer of the Gold Coast and The Gambia. Changing his career to administration, he started as the Administrator for The Gambia, where he dealt with the aggression of the native King of Gambia. He then became Governor for the Lagos where he negotiated on treaties with the local chiefs which protected Christian missionaries and ending human sacrifices. He later served as the Governors for The Bahamas and Barbados and finally as the Governor for Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nCarter was the only son of Thomas Gilbert Carter who was a Commander in the Royal Navy. He was educated at the Royal Naval School in Greenwich.\n\nCarter joined the Royal Navy in 1864, working as an Assistant Clerk on different ships. He also worked as a Clerk and as an Assistant Paymaster (the person responsible for paying everyone). His final job in the Royal Navy was on a Colonial steamer. While he was on this ship, he took part in the third war between England and the Ashanti people on the Gold Coast (now Ghana). \n\nWhen the town of Elmina was sold to the British by the Dutch Government, he was a commissioner, responsible for valuing the military supplies left behind by the Dutch. He left the Navy on 21 July 1875.\n\nIn 1875, Carter became the private secretary to Sir George Berkeley who was the Governor of the Leeward Islands. In August 1879, he became Collector of Customs and Treasurer of the Gold Coast.\n\nFrom 1882 until December 1888, Carter was in charge of the \"Settlement\" (the British colony) on The Gambia as a Treasurer and Postmaster. From 1886, he was acting Administrator of the Colony of the Gambia, until 1 December 1888, when he was given the job as full Administrator on the Gambia's separation from Sierra Leone.\n\nOn 1 January 1890, Carter was made a Companion of the Order of St Michael and St George (CMG).\n\nIn 1891, the native King of Gambia had been organising abusive acts towards the British colonists. Carter sent an envoy from his official residence in Bathurst with a message that if the abuses continued, \"he might expect a visit of a disciplinary nature from the marine forces of the Queen of England.\" (This means that the British Navy would send warships to punish the King.) The King sent the envoy back mutilated, with a message: \"This is the King's answer.\" In response, Carter sent three British gunboats to get revenge for the bad treatment shown to the envoy.\n\nOn 3 February 1891, Carter became Governor and Commander-in-Chief of the Colony of Lagos (now Nigeria). In 1892, Carter ordered an attack on the Ijebu tribe (of the Yoruba people) \"in the interest of civilisation\". Afterwards, he continued to say that this attack was a war to end slavery and promote civilisation. In early 1893, Carter travelled to various parts of Yorubaland, travelling with soldiers, in an attempt to show the power of the British. Some of the tribal chiefs did not want Carter there, and told him not to interfere with the slavery trade.\n\nIn January 1893, the Egba chiefs decided to sign a Treaty of Independence with the British Government. The Crown agreed that Her Majesty's Government would not try to take over any part of the Egba Nation without the permission of the lawful Authority of the nation. They also agreed that no aggressive actions should be made against the nation, and that its independence would be recognised. The Egba chiefs also said they would end human sacrifices.\n\nHe became a Knight Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George (KCMG) on 3 June 1893. This was for the work that he did in Yoruba country, and for bringing an end to a long war there.\n\nCarter sent works of art made by the Ife peoples of Yoruba to Europe.\n\nIn 1898, Carter was moved to The Bahamas as the Governor and Commander-in-Chief. He also had a temporary job as the Governor of Trinidad and Tobago. In July 1904, he was moved to Barbados as Governor and Commander-in-Chief.\n\nIn the spring of 1903, Carter met Gertrude Codman Parker (born 6 February 1875). She was travelling in the Bahamas with her parents. Carter and Parker got married on 25 August 1903 in the Church of the Advent in Boston, USA. He had been married before this, and had three sons and two daughters. His son Humphrey was Director of the Cambridge University Botanic Garden.\n\nCarter retired in 1910. In 1919, he changed his surname to \"Gilbert-Carter\" and in the early 1920s, he moved back to Barbados, and lived at Ilaro Court, which had been designed and built by his wife. \n\nHe died in Barbados on 18 January 1927.\n\n", "id": "222407", "title": "Gilbert Thomas Carter"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222410", "text": "Uvula\n\nThe uvula is the punchbag-shaped object on the back of a throat, in the middle of the soft palate. Massaging the uvula causes the gag reflex which makes someone vomit.\n\nThe uvula functions with the back of the throat, the palate, and air coming up from the lungs to create a number variety of different sounds. Consonants involving sound from the uvula are not found in most dialects of English, though they are found in many Semitic, Caucasian, and Turkic languages, as well as several languages of Western Europe such as German, French and a few Celtic languages, where it is used to make a sound called the uvular trill.\n", "id": "222410", "title": "Uvula"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222415", "text": "Canada Day\n\nCanada Day is a national and an official holiday in Canada celebrating its anniversary of Confederation. It takes place annually on July 1st.\n", "id": "222415", "title": "Canada Day"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222420", "text": "Blood diamond\n\nA blood diamond, also known as a conflict diamond, is a diamond that came from an area which is controlled by armed groups which oppose the rules and regulations of governments. These diamonds are mined by civilians who have been ordered by the armed groups to do so (most of them are children), and typically if they refuse to do the work they may be possibly raped, abused, or even murdered. The diamonds are then sold and used to buy weapons to help the armed groups fight against the government. Because of this, most of the blood diamond mining happens in war zones. This is a form of exploitation. There have been 3.7 million deaths over diamonds.\n", "id": "222420", "title": "Blood diamond"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222432", "text": "Solomon's Temple\n\nAccording to the Hebrew Bible, Solomon’s Temple, was the first temple the Israelites built for God. It was also called the first temple and was first built by Solomon. It stood next to the king’s palace, and was both God’s royal palace and Israel’s center of worship. The Bible says that the Lord said to Solomon, “I have consecrated (made special or clean) this temple…by putting my Name there forever. My eyes and my heart will always be there” (1 King 9:3). A symbol of holiness and royalty, it reminded the Israelites that God was the special head of Israel. It was patterned after the tabernacle and, in general, other temples at that time, and was divided into three important areas: the Most Holy Place, the Holy Place and the outer courtyard. It was built in Jerusalem, on the threshing floor of Araunah the Jebusite, where Solomon's father David had bought to build an altar to God.\n\nAccording to secular Historians, the Temple would have been completed in around 960 BCE. The Babylonians destroyed it in 587 or 586 BCE. Rabbinic literature says that the temple stood for 410 years. According to the work Seder Olam Rabbah, written in the second century CE, the temple was built in 832 BCE, and destroyed in 433 BCE (3338 AM). This is 165 later than the secular estimates.\n\nTo date, no definite archaeological proofs for Solomon's Temple have been found and the only information regarding the First Temple in Jerusalem is inside the biblical books of Joshua, Judges, 1-2 Samuel and 1-2 Kings.\n\nAt first, King David wanted to build a temple for God, but according to the Bible, God said to him through the prophet Nathan, \"You are not to build a house for my Name, because you are a warrior and have shed blood.\" However, he chose Solomon to build the temple. Before his death, David gave his son Solomon the plans for the building of the temple, and instructions for the priests and Levites, and all the work of serving in the temple. He also gave his own money to Solomon to help build the temple, and asked the people to help give gifts of money.\n\nKing Solomon sent a message to Hiram king of Tyre, who had been friends with his father David and sent David lots of wood to build his palace with. In this message, Solomon said that he wanted to build a temple for the Lord, and asked Hiram to send him wood. Hiram said that he would if Solomon gave food for the cost of the wood and work people did. So Hiram gave Solomon all the cedar and pine logs he wanted, and Solomon gave Hiram wheat for his family, and twenty thousand baths (about 115,000 gallons or 434 000 liters) of olive oil. King Hiram cut down the wood and sent them on to a place called Joppa. From there they could take the wood up to Jerusalem.\n\nAccording to the Bible, “In the 480th year after the Israelites had come out of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon’s reign over Israel, in…the second month, he began to build the temple of the LORD.”(1 Kings 6:1) King Solomon brought Huram-Abi, whose mother was a widow from the tribe of Naphtali (one of the tribes of Israel) and whose father was a man from Tyre and a person who was a craftsman in bronze. Huram was very good at all kinds of work. In 2 Chronicles 2:7 it says that he was \"...skilled to work in gold and silver, bronze and iron, and in purple, crimson, and blue yarn.\" He was especially good at working with bronze. When all the work King Solomon had done for the temple was finished, he brought in the things his father David had given to God, and put them in the treasuries of the temple. So \"In the eleventh year in the month of Bul, the eighth month, the temple was finished in all its details according to its specifications.\" (1 Kings 6:38 NIV)\n\nWhen the temple was finished, King Solomon brought the of the Lord's covenant to the temple and made all the people of Israel come there, and they sacrificed so many sheep and cattle \"they could not be recorded or counted\". Then the cloud filled the temple - just as God showed himself on the at Mt. Sinai, he now showed himself at the temple in a cloud. Then King Solomon praised God. He said a prayer of dedication (giving to God) in front of the people of Israel. He asked God to keep his promise to King David of letting King David's sons rule forever (which, according to the bible, becomes true when Jesus, the son of David, dies for mankind); then he added, \"But will God really dwell on earth? The heavens, even the highest heaven, cannot contain you. How much less this temple I have built!\"—reminding the people that God was not bound to the temple and could not be contained, even though he had chosen to come and with the people of Israel in a special way. Then he asked God to answer the people of Israel when they prayed toward, or at, the temple; to hear from heaven when someone sinned, or enemies came to Israel, or there was drought or famine in the land, \"...whatever disaster or disease may come, and when a prayer or plea (asking for something, request) is made by any of your people Israel...then hear from heaven, your dwelling place. Forgive and act; deal with each man according to all he does, since you know his heart (for you alone know the hearts of all men), so that they will fear you all the time they live in the land you gave our fathers\" (1 Kings 8:38-40). Then Solom stood up and blessed the people of Israel, and gave sacrifices to God: \"twenty thousand cattle and a hundred and twenty thousand sheep and goats. So the king and all the Israelites dedicated the temple of the LORD\"(1 Kings 8: 63, NIV).\n\nAccording to the Bible, when Solomon had finished building the temple, God appeared to him and said, \"I have heard the prayer and plea you have made before me...My eyes and my heart will always be there [at the temple you have made].\" However, God also warned to Solomon the importance of obeying God's covenant (promise) in order to enjoy its blessings, not its curses. This was needed because God gave Solomon power and wealth, which many times made people forget the promise God had made with them.\n\nSolomon also gave to Hiram king of Tyre 20 towns in Galilee because Hiram had given him all the cedar and pine and gold he had needed. But Hiram did not like the towns Solomon had given him and he said, \"What kind of towns are these you have given me, my brother?\" (1 Kings 9:13, NIV) He called them the Land of Cabul (which sounds like the Hebrew for \"good-for-nothing\"). Probably Solomon had become more indebted to Hiram than he had at first thought, so he had given the towns to Hiram king of Tyre as a sign that he would pay him later. 2 Chronicles 8:1-2 says that later, when Solomon became richer - maybe because of the expedition to Ophir (1 King 9:26-28;10-11) or the visit from the queen of Sheba.\n\nThe temple of Solomon was next to the king's palace. The floor plan was like most West Semite kinds of floor plans. An early example of a floor divided into \"ulam\", \"hekal\", and \"debir\" (, main hall, and inner ) has been found at Syrian Ebla (c.2300 B.C.) and much later but more around the time of Solomon, at Tell Tainat at the Orontes basin (c.900 B.C.). Like Solomon's, the later temple has three divisions has two columns at the entrance (in Solomon's palace, they are called \"Jakin\" and Boaz\"), and is next to the royal palace.\n\nThe ark of the covenant of God was put inside the inner sanctuary - the Most Holy Place - which was about 30 feet (about 9 meters) long, wide and high, overlaid with pure gold. Solomon used lots of gold in the temple: this was probably because the bright gold symbolized the glory of God and his heavenly temple (Rev.21:10-11,18,21). Inside the temple were carved , palm trees and flowers. This is a reminder of the Garden of Eden, which humans could not live in anymore because of their sin. The temple was a symbol that the Israelites could come back to paradise through the temple.\n\nSome discoveries today echo the words in 1 Kings 6-7.\n\nSomething very much like the wheeled movable basin used in the courtyard of the temple has come from archaeological on Cyprus.\n\nA stone altar having four horns on the corners was found at Megiddo. It shows a good idea of how the gold altar in the temple looked like. The table for the Bread of the Presence was also made of gold. The Bread of the Presence (twelve pieces of bread, one for every tribe of Israel), symbolized a continual offering to God by which Israel showed that she gave to God what she earned with her work, and that everything Israel had received was a blessing of God's.\n\nTen lamp stands were in the temple, five on each side of the (1 Kings 7:49). Lamps like these have been found in many places in Palestine, including Hazor and Dothan.\n\n", "id": "222432", "title": "Solomon's Temple"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222441", "text": "2nd millennium\n\nThe 2nd millennium started on January 1, 1001, and ended on December 31, 2000. \n", "id": "222441", "title": "2nd millennium"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222463", "text": "Radio Bart\n\n\"Radio Bart\" is the thirteenth episode of The Simpsons third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on January 9, 1992. In this episode, Bart gets a microphone that transmits sound to nearby AM radios. To play a prank on the people of \"Springfield\", Bart places a radio deep inside a well and uses the microphone to trick the town into thinking a little boy is stuck in it. At first his trick worked, but soon realizes that he left a \"property of Bart Simpson\" label on the radio and goes to get it. Bart becomes trapped in the well and while the town decides to leave him there after finding out about the prank, his father Homer tries to rescue him.\n", "id": "222463", "title": "Radio Bart"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222476", "text": "Chromatin\n\nChromatin is the complex combination of DNA and proteins that makes up chromosomes. It is found inside the nuclei of eukaryotic cells. \n\nChromatin is divided into heterochromatin (condensed) and euchromatin (extended) forms.\nHeterochromatin is composed mostly of satellite DNA tandem repeats. The active components of chromatin are DNA and histone proteins, although other proteins also occur. The functions of chromatin are:\n\n", "id": "222476", "title": "Chromatin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222484", "text": "The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause\n\nThe Santa Claus 3: The Escape Clause is the third movie in \"The Santa Clause\" series of movies.\n\n The Santa Claus 3: The Escape Clause is a 2006 American Christmas fantasy comedy adventure film directed by Michael Lembeck. Nominated for Academy Awards in nine categories, it won an Academy Award for Best Writing (Original Screenplay) by Herman J. Mankiewicz and Welles. Considered by many critics, filmmakers, and fans to be the greatest film of all time, \"Citizen Kane\" was voted as such in five consecutive British Film Institute \"Sight & Sound\" polls of critics, until it was displaced by \"Vertigo\" in the 2012 poll. It topped the American Film Institute's 100 Years ... 100 Movies list in 2017, as well as its 2007 update. \"Citizen Kane\" is particularly praised for its cinematography, music, and narrative structure, which have been considered innovative and precedent-setting.\n\n", "id": "222484", "title": "The Santa Clause 3: The Escape Clause"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222494", "text": "Lisa the Greek\n\n\"Lisa the Greek\" is the fourteenth episode of The Simpsons third season. It first started on the Fox network in the United States on January 23, 1992. In this episode, Homer begins to bond with his daughter, Lisa, after learning her unique ability to pick winning American football teams. When Lisa finds out Homer has only been using her for gambling, she doesn't to speak to her father until he fully understands her. \"Lisa the Greek\" was written by Jay Kogen and Wallace Wolodarsky, and directed by Rich Moore.\n", "id": "222494", "title": "Lisa the Greek"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222502", "text": "Homer Alone\n\n\"Homer Alone\" is the 15th episode of \"The Simpsons\" ' third season and the 50th episode of the series. The title is based on the movie \"Home Alone\". The episode is written by David M. Stern, the brother of actor Daniel Stern, who co-starred in \"Home Alone\" and its first sequel.\n", "id": "222502", "title": "Homer Alone"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222508", "text": "Bart the Lover\n\n\"Bart the Lover\" is the sixteenth episode of The Simpsons' third season. In this episode, it takes an early look at the personal life of Mrs. Krabappel. Marcia Wallace, the voice actress of Mrs. Krabappel, won an Emmy for her performance in this episode.\n", "id": "222508", "title": "Bart the Lover"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222534", "text": "Nucleosome\n\nNucleosomes are the building blocks which make up chromosomes. They consist of a segment of DNA wound around a histone protein core.\n\nFirst, DNA and a protein make up chromatin. Then the chromatin is packed up into nucleosomes. Nucleosomes are then packaged up to make a chromosome. The packages do three things: the chromosomes function in cell division; the very long DNA is wrapped up in a shorter package; and the proteins regulate the gene action in cells.\n\nNucleosomes form the basic repeating units of eukaryotic chromatin. This packs the large eukaryotic genomes into the nucleus and allows it to be controlled.\n\nIn mammalian cells about two metres of linear DNA have to be packed into a nucleus of roughly 10 µm diameter. Nucleosomes are folded, in a series of higher order structures, to form a chromosome. This folding compacts the DNA and adds a layer of regulatory control. The control ensures correct gene expression. \n\nNucleosomes are thought to carry epigenetically inherited information, as modifications of their core histones. This information can be passed on to daughter cells, but it usually wiped out by meiosis in germ cells.\n\nThe nucleosome hypothesis proposed by Don and Ada Olins and Roger Kornberg \nin 1974, was a big step for understanding eukaryotic gene expression. Kornberg won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry (2006) for this and other discoveries.\n\nAlthough the nucleosome is a very stable protein-DNA complex, it is not static. It undergoes some structural re-arrangements, such as nucleosome sliding and DNA site exposure. Nucleosomes can inhibit or facilitate transcription. \n\nSince they were discovered in the mid 1960’s, histone changes were thought to affect transcription.\n\nSome modifications have been shown to be correlated with gene silencing, others seem to be correlated with gene activation. The information stored in this way is considered epigenetic: it is not coded in the DNA but is nevertheless inherited by daughter cells. The maintenance of a particular state of a gene is often necessary for cellular differentiation.\n", "id": "222534", "title": "Nucleosome"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222549", "text": "Arturo Rodas\n\nArturo Rodas (born 1954) is a leading Ecuadorian composer. He has lived in London since 1989.\n\nRodas has composed \"24.5 Preludes\" for piano; \"Climax\" for orchestra, \"Atonal fugue I\" for oboe \"d'amore\" & piano and electronic music works.\n\n\"Since emigrating to England in 1990, he has composed works such as \"The Book of the Orchestra\",(2002-2003) which is intended to be performed in a house with many rooms so as to allow an “audience” to hear different instrumental groups as they wander from room to room\".\n\n\n\n", "id": "222549", "title": "Arturo Rodas"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222555", "text": "Extremophile\n\nAn extremophile is an \"organism\" (a living thing) which lives best in extreme conditions that are harmful to most life on Earth. They are different from organisms that live in normal places, called \"mesophiles\" or \"neutrophiles\".\n\nIn the 1980s and 1990s, biologists found that microbes can survive in extreme environments. These are niches that are extreme in some way. They may be extremely hot, or cold, or dry, or under huge pressure, or very salty or acidic. Complex orgamisms, such as animals or plants, cannot live in these environments. \n\nSome scientists suggest that life may have begun on Earth in hydrothermal vents far below the ocean surface. Environments such as hot oceans, hot springs and deep ocean hydrothermal vents would have been common during the Archaean eon, about 3.9 billion years ago. Early forms of life lived in those conditions.\n\nMost known extremophiles are microbes. The domain Archaea has well-known examples of extremophiles, but some bacteria are also extremophiles. It is a mistake to use the term extremophile for all archaeans, since some of them are mesophilic. Not all extremophiles are unicellular: some extreme environments have animals which are multicellular. \n\nSome extremophiles fall under several categories. For example, organisms living inside hot rocks deep under Earth's surface are both \"thermophilic\" and \"barophilic\".\n\n", "id": "222555", "title": "Extremophile"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222569", "text": "Meowth\n\nMeowth has a cat-like design, with cream-colored fur, and has brown paws and tail tip. It has whiskers, black-and-brown ears, and a gold coin on its head. Meowth is spends most of the daytime sleeping and walks the city streets at night. They put their claws back into their paws so they can move without noise and not leave footprints. Meowth loves round objects, as well as shiny things. The item it loves collecting the most are coins since they are both round \"and\" shiny. Meowth collects them and keeps them in its nest. Murkrow, a bird Pokémon, also likes coins and steals them from Meowth.\n\nMeowth appears as a wild Pokémon in many versions of the games. Meowth is one of the characters in the Pokémon Mystery Dungeon games. Meowth is also seen in the Nintendo 64 game Pokémon Snap, the Nintendo GameCube game \"Pokémon Channel\", and many others. Meowth is seen in the Super Smash Bros. series as a Pokémon used with a Poké Ball item, and uses its move \"Pay Day\" and throws coins at players.\n\nMeowth has made an appearance in almost every episode in the anime because one is owned by Team Rocket agents Jessie and James, the show's main antagonists. He first lived in the city, and tried to impress a female Meowth named Meowzie by learning to walk on two legs and speak human language. Instead of being impressed, she told him he was a freak, so Meowth joined Team Rocket. Meowth was cloned in \"\", but his clone could not talk or walk on two legs, because Meowth needed to learn how to do this. The Meowth clone is shown again in \"\". A trainer named Tyson owns a Meowth, which beat Ash's Pikachu a the Hoenn Pokémon League. This Meowth was dressed up like Puss in Boots.\n\nIn the Pokémon Adventures manga, Meowth's first appearance is a cameo in the first chapter as one of the Pokémon that escapes from Professor Oak's Laboratory. Meowth has appeared in the Pokémon Trading Card Game first in the Jungle series. A special Meowth card was given when buying the Pokémon Trading Card Video Game. In an open forum interview with ABC News, Pokémon anime director Masakazu Kubo noted Meowth as his favorite Pokémon, saying that while not a major Pokémon in the games, a Meowth is in the anime.\n\nTeam Rocket's Meowth ranked fourth on Game Daily's top 10 list of Nintendo characters that deserve their own games, describing him as \"adorable\" and explaining that his intelligence and ability to speak gave writers more depth than other Pokémon would. IGN stated that without the anime, the character would not have been as famous, further describing it as \"probably the funniest part of the show\". However, another editor stated it was also popular amongst people who have never seen the anime due to being a feline. IGN also said that Meowth would make a good choice as a playable character in \"Super Smash Bros. Brawl\" \"if Brawl's developers really wanted much more representation for Pokémon as a franchise\" also stating \"it would be fun to face him in battle as a real fighter, just to be able to send him \"blasting off again,\" referencing Team Rocket's Meowth GamesRadar described Meowth as \"not all that useful\", and questioned if the Pokémon would have stood out if it were not for its portrayal in the anime.\n", "id": "222569", "title": "Meowth"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222574", "text": "Seal of Alabama\n\nThe Great Seal of the State of Alabama is the state seal of the U.S. state of Alabama. It was designed in 1817 by William Wyatt Bibb, the governor of the \"Alabama Territory\" and the subsequent first governor of the state. When Alabama became a state in 1819, the state got the design as the official state seal. The seal has a map showing one of the state's most valuable resources—its major rivers. Bibb's design served as the official seal until 1868, when it was replaced by a design having on it an eagle holding in its beak a banner that read \"Here We Rest.\" The legislature and Governor Frank M. Dixon restored Bibb's original design in 1939, and it has remained unchanged since.\n", "id": "222574", "title": "Seal of Alabama"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222575", "text": "Modular origami\n\nModular origami (also called unit origami) is a type of paperfolding that uses many sheets of paper. Modular origami is used to make large structures that cannot be made with one sheet of paper. Many sheets of paper are folded in identical shapes, and they are then put together by inserting flaps into pockets. \n\nThe first modular origami model comes from a 1734 Japanese book by Hayato Ohoka called \"Ranma Zushiki\". The book has pictures of many traditional origami models, and one is a modular cube called \"tamatebako\". \"Tamatebako\" is a Japanese word meaning \"magic treasure box\", and it is called this because the box can be opened on any side. Another traditional model, kusudamas, are balls of folded paper flowers. They are often hung as decorations using string or thread.\n\nThe various number of modules is combined from two to tens of thousands modules. When modules are put together, most are supported only by the friction of paper, also they are glued together or sewn by threads.\nMitsunobu Sonobe designed in 1970s. It is so simple that most people can make kusudamas. Module of Sonobe method is one of the most famous modules. We can make a polyhedron like a cube or a trisoctahedron(a dodecahedron?) by putting together many modules.\nModular Rate is the facility of putting together. This rate is how many people can put together without joining materials like glues. This rate applies the model that was designed so that it was put together without using joining materials from the beginning.\n", "id": "222575", "title": "Modular origami"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222594", "text": "University of Missouri\n\nThe University of Missouri (often shortened to MU, and also nicknamed Mizzou) is a public university in Columbia, Missouri, in the United States that was started in 1839. It has about 31,000 students.\n\nMissouri's athletics teams are called the Tigers. Missouri has 18 varsity teams that now compete in the Southeastern Conference. The school's mascot, Truman the Tiger, is named after President Harry Truman, who was from Missouri.\n\nThere are more than 280 degree programs at the University of Missouri. \n\nThe university's well known school of journalism is the oldest university journalism program in the United States. The school has awarded its Honor Medal for Distinguished Service in Journalism. The medal has been awarded yearly since 1930.\n\n", "id": "222594", "title": "University of Missouri"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222596", "text": "Saltasaurus\n\nSaltasaurus was a large plant-eating dinosaur with an elongated neck and bony armored plates on its body. It was a titanosaurid sauropod which lived during the late Cretaceous period, about 83 to 79 million years ago. Fossils have been found in Argentina.\n\nIt was the first genus of sauropod known to have armour of bony plates embedded in its skin. The small bony plates (called osteoderms, a feature of modern crocodiles) have since been found on other titanosaurs. \n\n\"Saltasaurus\" was named by paleontologists José Bonaparte and Jamie Powell in 1980. Salta is the name of the Northwestern Argentinian Province where fossils were found. They include: a few oval and circular armored plates, hundreds of bumps which covered its back (roughly 1/4 inch = 6-7 mm in diameter), and several incomplete skeletons, including some vertebrae, limb bones, and jaws.\n", "id": "222596", "title": "Saltasaurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222600", "text": "Peter Schwartz\n\nPeter Schwartz was born in 1946. He is a futurist (his job is to think about what might happen in the future, and help prepare for it) and an author. He and his friends Stewart Brand and Jay Ogilvy made Global Business Network. Global Business Network is a company in San Francisco, California.\n\nPeter was born in 1946. His parents are named Klara and Benjamin. He went to college at RPI. His wife is named Cathleen. His son is named Benjamin. Benjamin was born in 1990.\n\nPeter Schwartz wrote a lot of books, mostly about the future. He wrote about China's economy.\nPeter Schwartz also helped work on movies.\n\nGlobal Business Network is Peter Schwartz's company. He started it in the 1980s with his friends Stewart Brand and Jay Ogilvy.\n", "id": "222600", "title": "Peter Schwartz"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222601", "text": "Fiddler crab\n\nA fiddler crab, also called a calling crab, is a land crab that lives in mud or sand flats near the beach. The reason this crab is called a fiddler crab is because it holds its large in front of its body and moves it back and forth as if it is playing a fiddle.\n\nThe male fiddler crab has one huge cheliped and another smaller cheliped. Sometimes it's the right cheliped that's the big one and sometimes it's the left. If a male loses its large cheliped, the smaller one will grow large to replace it. This huge cheliped is so large that it is sometimes bigger than the whole crab. It is this cheliped they wave back and forth.\n\nThe fiddler crab eats by first opening its mouth, then using its maxillipeds (a part of its mouth), it scoops in a small amount of mud or sand, depending on where it lives. Then, it uses its other mouthparts to scrape any food matter (algae, decaying animals or plants)it can from the dirt it has just put into its mouth. After this, it forms the mud or sand into a little , which is called a \"feeding pellet\". It then drops the feeding pellet and starts all over again.\n\netter than the ones they usually build. The crabs guard these burrows . Where there are lots of fiddler crabs, there are usually hundreds of these little burrows all lined up only a few inches apart. Each male fiddler crab stands out in front of his burrow waiting for the females to return from eating. The females then walk around looking at the different burrows. As they walk past, the males wave their big chelipeds back and forth. If a female likes a male or burrow, she will stop and stare. Then the male begins waving his cheliped wildly. Sometimes the female will run away. However, if she stays, the male will run between her and the burrow, back and forth, again and again. If she has still not run away, she will come closer to the burrow. Then the male will enter the burrow a little and start drumming against the side of the tunnel with his cheliped. If the female likes what she hears, she will go down into the burrow, and they will mate.\n\n", "id": "222601", "title": "Fiddler crab"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222644", "text": "Night\n\nNight or nighttime is the time when the Sun is not in the sky. Night happens after dusk and before dawn. The opposite of night is day. The start and end times of night are different in different geographic locations. It varies on season, latitude, longitude and timezone.\n\nIn other time zones, the night occurs at different times. This is because the Sun shines on different parts of the Earth at different times. During a solar eclipse it is also partially night because the Sun is blocked out by the Moon.\n\nIn popular culture, night is often thought of as a symbol of evil, possibly because of the fear of the dark or possibly because of the lack of visibility.\n\n", "id": "222644", "title": "Night"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222647", "text": "Bureau of Economic Analysis\n\nThe Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) is an agency in the [United States]] Department of Commerce that has economic statistics like the gross domestic product of the United States. Its stated mission is to \"promote a better understanding of the U.S. economy by having the most timely, relevant, and accurate economic data in an objective and cost-effective manner.\"\n", "id": "222647", "title": "Bureau of Economic Analysis"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222649", "text": "Flag of Washington\n\nThe Flag of Washington has the state seal (which has an image of George Washington) on a field of dark green with gold fringe being . It is the only U.S. state flag with a field of green as well as the only state flag with the image of an American president.\n", "id": "222649", "title": "Flag of Washington"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222653", "text": "Back at the Barnyard\n\nBack at the Barnyard is a cartoon which is a spinoff form the \"Barnyard\" movie. It began airing on September 2007.\n\nIn March 2008, Nick renewed \"Back at the Barnyard\" for a second season of 20 episodes and two holiday themed specials. The new season premiered on October 24, 2008, part of \"Some Like It Snotty Week\", which became the first 30-minute episode called, \"Some Like it Snotty\". A brand new Barnyard movie aired on November 29, 2008, which is the third day of the second \"Super Stuffed Nicktoons Weekend\". Four new episodes aired from January 20-23, 2009 part of \"Battle of the Barnyard Week\". Five more new episodes aired from February 23-27, 2009 part of \"Animal Invasion\" week, followed by five new episodes aired from May 18-22, 2009 part of an \"Barnyard Bizarro Week\". Another quintet new episodes aired June 29 - July 3, 2009 part of \"Battle of the Barnyard 2 week\".\n", "id": "222653", "title": "Back at the Barnyard"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222655", "text": "Barnyard (movie)\n\nBarnyard is an animated movie which first shown in theaters on August 4, 2006. It was directed by Steve Oedekerk.\n\nOtis is a cow who likes to play. His father Ben is the leader of the barnyard when the farmer is away. Otis interrupts a barnyard meeting with his wild behavior, His father tells Otis he will never be happy if he just goofs off, and that he should grow up. Otis ignores his advice and leaves to have fun with his friends: Pip the mouse, Pig the pig, Freddy the ferret, and Peck the chicken. That same day, Otis meets a new cow, Daisy, who is pregnant. She is with Bessy, another female cow. \n\nThat night the animals have a party in the barn. All the animals are there except Ben, who is guarding the animals. Otis is supposed to be working with him, but he wants to be at the party. Ben talks with Otis and says the day he found him alone in the meadow, the stars danced. Otis is given permission to go to the party and he runs to the barn. \n\nLater on, Ben has to fight a pack of coyotes led by Dag. They are raiding the chicken coop. Ben is bitten in the leg by a coyote, and he falls down. The coyotes pile on Ben, but he manages to grab Dag and escapes the pile. The hens cheer, but Ben falls on the ground, tired. Etta, a hen, runs into the barn and tells Otis, who runs outside to his father. Ben opens his mouth as if to say something, but dies. \n\nAfter Ben's death, all the animals elect Otis as the new leader of the Barnyard. He gets out of his duties by leaving Freddy and Peck in charge of the coop. Later, Otis is sitting with Daisy and he overhears the coyotes chasing a hare. Otis tries to attack Dag but is outsmarted. Since Otis is weaker, Dag makes a deal that he and his pack will take some of the animals, but if he tries to stand up for all of them, they will kill everyone. Otis decides to leave the barnyard because he has no chance against the coyotes.\n\nThe next morning, before leaving, Otis finds out that the coyotes have taken some hens and a chick. Otis knows that he has been tricked by Dag, as he was not expecting them until tonight. He goes to rescue the poultry. Otis confronts the pack but is easily defeated. Pip, Pig, Freddy, Peck and Miles the Mule arrive to help them, along with the gophers and Jersey Cows. Dag tries to sneak attack Otis from behind, but Otis is alerted when Peck successfully yells a warning. Otis catches Dag and tells the coyote to never return. Dag is swung out of the junkyard by Otis's golf skills.\n\nOtis and the rest make it back to the barnyard. Daisy gives birth to a calf whom she names Ben. Duke, the farmer's sheepdog, asks Otis if he wants to stay and be their leader. Otis agrees, and everyone cheers as he walks outside. Once again, he sees the stars dancing.\n\n\n", "id": "222655", "title": "Barnyard (movie)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222665", "text": "Robert J. Lang\n\nRobert J. Lang (born May 4, 1961) is an American physicist known for his contributions to the art of origami.\n\nLang started his career in origami forty years ago, and many think he is now one of the world's best paperfolders. He travels often, giving lectures about how origami is related to other topics, like science, mathematics, and technology. Lang is also the author of nine books, and has written articles in several origami magazines. He has found many uses of origami in real life situations, like airbag design and an expandable space telescope. \n\nBefore being a professional origamist, Lang had many different jobs. He was a physicist, engineer, and research and development manager in chemistry. Lang has helped to write 80 publications, and has over 50 patents.\n\nLang was born on May 4th, 1961 in Dayton, Ohio, but he grew up outside Atlanta, Georgia. He was first introduced to origami when he was six years old. Lang was very good at math and math class bored him, so his teacher gave him an origami book to keep him entertained. He quickly folded the models in the book, and then folded models in many other books. In his early teens, Lang began folding his own models, and he drew diagrams on how to make them.\n\nLang went to college at Caltech, The California Institute of Technology, where he learned electrical engineering. He found college very hard, and often folded origami as a distraction from college life. Lang was afraid to tell people about his hobby, and he was even \"a little embarrassed about it.\" For a long time, Lang didn't know any other origamists. He graduated from Caltech with a Ph.D. in physics, and later he graduated from Stanford University with a master's degree in electrical engineering.\n\nWhile in college, Lang noticed the name and address of the Origami Center of America, and he soon became friends with other experienced paperfolders, including Michael LaFosse, John Montroll, Joseph Wu, and Paul Jackson. They inspired Lang with their pretty and complex models, and he soon created new models; he designed a hermit crab, an ant, a skunk, and many other others. Soon afterwards, he took a trip to Germany, where he was fascinated by their beautiful cuckoo clocks. They inspired him to make origami clocks, which impressed many paperfolders. Soon after completing his first origami clock, Lang began a job at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory.\n\nIn 2000, Lang decided to quit his job and begin a career in origami.\n\nIn 2011, Lang discussed his work in an interview with Peter Shea at the University of Minnesota. \nLang has written nine books about origami:\n", "id": "222665", "title": "Robert J. Lang"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222669", "text": "Lent\n\nLent, in the Christian tradition, is a period of about six weeks before Easter. It is a time in which Christians are supposed to be quiet and thoughtful, preparing themselves for Easter. They should pray a lot, give money to charities and give up some of the things they might otherwise do for pleasure. The period of Lent ends at Easter, which is a time of great celebration as the Christians think of how Jesus had died on the cross but then rose again from the dead.\n\nLent is traditionally supposed to be forty days long. That is because the Bible says that Jesus spent forty days in the wilderness, preparing for his death and resurrection.\n\nLent begins on Ash Wednesday. In the Catholic Church, it ends at the Ninth Hour of Maundy Thursday (44 days). In The Anglican Catholic Church, it ends on Holy Saturday (46 days).\n\nChurches in the Byzantine tradition (for example, Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic) count the days of Lent differently. There are also different local traditions in the Oriental Orthodox church.\n\nLent is traditionally a time for fasting (not eating much). This tradition was useful because it was a time when food which had been kept for the winter had to be eaten up before it went bad. Many Roman Catholics do not eat meat other than fish on Fridays during Lent.\n\nThe word \"lent\" came from the Old English \"lencten\" meaning \"spring\" (the season).\n\n\n", "id": "222669", "title": "Lent"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222671", "text": "Oskar Schindler\n\nOskar Schindler (April 28 1908 – October 9 1974) was a Sudeten German industrialist. He was born in Zwittau, Moravia, Austria-Hungary and was a Roman Catholic. \n\nSchindler was a member of the NSDAP. He saved almost 1,200 Jews during the Holocaust by making them work his enamelware and ammunitions factories, which were in what is known today as Poland and the Czech Republic. He is the subject of the novel Schindler's Ark, and the film based on it, \"Schindler's List\". He died of liver failure in Hildesheim, Germany. He is buried in the Catholic Cemetery on Mount Zion, Jerusalem.\n", "id": "222671", "title": "Oskar Schindler"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222673", "text": "Donna Karan\n\nDonna Karan (born October 2, 1951) is an American fashion designer and the creator of the \"Donna Karan New York\" and \"DKNY\" clothing labels. \n\nShe was born in Forest Hills, Queens, New York City. She is Jewish.\n", "id": "222673", "title": "Donna Karan"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222707", "text": "Wisteria\n\nWisteria is a type of plant. It is a climbing shrub with blue/lilac flowers.\n", "id": "222707", "title": "Wisteria"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222708", "text": "Moment magnitude scale\n\nThe Moment Magnitude scale is a way to measure the power of earthquakes. The higher the number, the bigger the earthquake. It is the energy of the earthquake at the moment it happens. Like the similar and older Richter scale, it is logarithmic, with a base of ten. \n\n", "id": "222708", "title": "Moment magnitude scale"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222712", "text": "Basic English\n\nBasic English (Business Academic Scientific International Commercial) is a controlled language to explain complex thoughts. It has chosen by Charles Kay Ogden. Some articles in the Simple English Wikipedia use only Basic English.\n\nIn 1936 Ogden had Otto and Marie Neurath make \"International Picture Language\" as one of a group of eight books in Basic English.\n\nThe word use of Basic English is simpler and more regular than the word use of the normal English. In normal English, words often have a number of different meanings. To make Basic English easier, not all the meanings of a word are used.\n\nOgden's rules of grammar for Basic English help people use the 850 words to talk about things and events simply.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "222712", "title": "Basic English"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222721", "text": "Preston Wamsley\n\nPreston Maki Wamsley (born April 29, 1986) is an American television actor.\n\nWamsley is best known for his recurring role as \"Ronnie Wilson\"\" on the 1990s sitcom, \"The Hughleys\". Wamsley has also made appearances on other sitcoms including \"My Wife and Kids\", \"The Nanny\", and \"Beyond Belief: Fact or Fiction\".\n", "id": "222721", "title": "Preston Wamsley"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222772", "text": "Jennifer Government: NationStates\n\nNationStates is an browser game where you run your own country. It was made by an Australian man called Max Barry and the idea for it was from his book \"Jennifer Government\". It came out on 13 November 2002. There was a sequel, NationStates 2, but it is now closed.\n\nIn the beginning, you create your own country. On the first page, you choose your name, flag, motto, type of money, and government type. On the next page, the answers decide the first rankings of your nation. The new country starts with a population of 5 million and rises every day.\n\nIssues are one of the most important parts of the game. For an issue, you have to choose an option to solve a problem in your country. Also, you can just click \"dismiss\" to ignore it. None are the right one, as each one has it's downsides. After the 30 original issues, Max Barry realized that more were needed so he gave players with a population of over 500 million an option to send him their own issue ideas.\n\nThe way you choose the solutions to the issues changes your civil rights, political freedoms and economy rankings. The names of the rankings can be seen below:\n\nBased on these, each country is placed in one of 27 categories, such as Inoffensive Centrist Democracy, Scandinavian Liberal Paradise and Corporate Police State.\nNationStates also has forums where any of the players can discuss and debate about many different things.\n\nSome of the players might not be as interested in debates, and would prefer to roleplay instead. There are subforums for players of each type.\n\n", "id": "222772", "title": "Jennifer Government: NationStates"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222828", "text": "Fork-tailed woodnymph\n\nThe fork-tailed woodnymph (\"Thalurania furcata\") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela. Its natural habitats are subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests, subtropical or tropical moist montane forests, and degraded former forests.\n", "id": "222828", "title": "Fork-tailed woodnymph"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222833", "text": "2010 Haiti earthquake\n\nThe 2010 Haiti earthquake was a very strong earthquake that hit Haiti on January 12, 2010. On the scientific scale that measures the magnitude (or strength) of an earthquake, the quake scored a magnitude of 7.0 M. The center of the earthquake was near Léogâne, very close to Port-au-Prince, the capital and largest city of Haiti. It was only about west. The earthquake hit in the afternoon, at 16:53:10 local time (21:53:10 UTC). Haiti already was the poorest country in the western hemisphere, and was not able to take care of all the people that needed help.\n\nAbout three million people were affected by the earthquake, many homes were destroyed. Three days after the earthquake, the Haitian Interior Minister said that up to 200,000 had died because of the quake and its effects. This was many more deaths than officials originally thought. At first, the Red Cross had guessed a much smaller death toll of 45,000–50,000.\n\nThe earthquake caused major damage to Port-au-Prince. Most major landmarks were badly damaged or destroyed. The Presidential Palace, the National Assembly building, the Port-au-Prince Cathedral, and the city's main jails were all destroyed. The president at the time, René Préval, survived. \n\nMost hospitals in the area were destroyed, which made things much worse. The headquarters of the United Nations Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH) in Port-au-Prince collapsed. The Mission's Chief (Hédi Annabi), his deputy, and the acting police commissioner were killed in the quake. Elisabeth Byrs of the United Nations (UN) called the earthquake the worst disaster the United Nations had ever had. This was not just because of the property damage and deaths from the earthquake. The roads, phone lines and government buildings of the UN in Haiti and the Haitian government were also destroyed, so trying to just get organized and get help to the people was a real problem. So many people died in such a short time, that they used dump trucks to haul the dead bodies to mass graves.\n\n After the earthquake, many charities and organizations asked people around the world to help Haiti. The International Red Cross, the Salvation Army, the United Nations, and president René Préval all asked the world for help. Raymond Joseph, Haiti's ambassador to the United States, and his nephew, famous singer Wyclef Jean, also begged people to give money. (A few years before the earthquake, President Preval had asked Jean to become a \"roving ambassador\" for Haiti.)\n\nMany different countries started raising money and sent medical teams or search and rescue teams to Haiti. The Dominican Republic, which is next to Haiti, was the first country to give aid. This helped reduce some bad feelings between the two countries that had been there a long time.\n\nBut it takes a long time to rebuild a city and the area around it. Just finding places to move all the broken parts of buildings was difficult. And countries promise money to help rebuild, but it takes a while to get the money, and in most disasters, only half the money that is promised is actually sent. (This doesn't count millions of dollars that people gave directly). For years many people were living in tents, wherever they could find room. And workers for the UN introduced cholera to the country in October 2010, which made many people sick and killed thousands more. The country is still recovering.\n\n23. http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/8455629.stm\n", "id": "222833", "title": "2010 Haiti earthquake"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222834", "text": "Rödermark\n\nRödermark is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany.\n\nRödermark is in the \"Rhine Main area\" 35 km southeast of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 29.99 km large and it is 142 m above sea level. It is a plain area with nearly no hills.\n\nAbout 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor.\n\nThe town consists out of the 2 former independent villages \"Ober-Roden\" and \"Urberach\". On 1 January 1977 they were united and became the \"municipality of Rödermark\". On 23 August 1980 the town privileges were given to the municipality.\n\nThe city has 5 urban districts. These are \"Ober-Roden\", \"Urberach\", \"Waldacker\", \"Messenhausen\" and \"Buhlau\".\n\nThe ending \"-roden\" is a hint to the former landscape. The German verb \"roden\" means \"cutting down trees to cultivate land\".\n\nThe neighbours of Rödermark are: \n\nRödermark has 27,858 inhabitants (2008). 10.7% of the people living here are from foreign countries.\n\nThe climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.\n\nSome local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: \"Hessisch\"). This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every village had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and mostly it is no longer the dialect they speak but a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.\n\nThe first settlements were build in the 8th century. At that time their names were written down in documents.\n\nFormerly the people in the Rödermark area were farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical processing. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly.\n\n", "id": "222834", "title": "Rödermark"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222835", "text": "The Pirate Bay\n\nThe Pirate Bay (shortname:TPB) is a Swedish website that indexes Bit Torrent files. It was created by Gottfrid Svartholm, Fredrik Neij and Peter Sunde. The Pirate Bay is ranked as the 85th most popular website by Alexa. The Pirate Bay had to face many lawsuits and a raid in relation to copyright violations. It was shut down on December 9, 2014 by Swedish police, and came back online on January 31, 2015.\nAlso, it may risk your PC to get infected by a virus.\n", "id": "222835", "title": "The Pirate Bay"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222841", "text": "Heusenstamm\n\nHeusenstamm is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany.\n\nHeusenstamm is in the \"rhein main region\" 20 km southeast of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 19,03 km large and is 130 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.\n\nAbout 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor.\n\nThe city consists out of 2 urban districts, the town of Heusenstamm and the former independent village, \"Rembrücken\", which became on 1th of January 1977 part of Heusenstamm.\n\nThe neighbours of Heusenstamm are: \n\nHeusenstamm has 18,227 inhabitants (2008).\n\nThe climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.\n\nThe local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is spoken in the south of Hesse, named \"hessisch\". This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.\n\nIn the 13th century the names of Heusenstamm and Rembrücken were written down in documents for the first time.\n\nFormerly the people in the Heusenstamm area were mostly farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore, most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the rhein main region got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical processing. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly.\n\n\n", "id": "222841", "title": "Heusenstamm"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222842", "text": "Catherine of Alexandria\n\nSaint Catherine of Alexandria, also known as Saint Catherine of the Wheel and The Great Martyr Saint Catherine (Greek \"\") is a Christian saint and martyr. She is believed to have been a well-known scholar in the 4th century. In the 15th century it was claimed she had spoken to Joan of Arc. The Orthodox Church venerates her as a \"great martyr\", and in the Catholic Church she is traditionally revered as one of the Fourteen Holy Helpers.\n\nCatherine was the daughter of Costus, a pagan governor of Alexandria. She announced to her parents that she would only marry someone who was more beautiful, intelligent and rich than herself. In addition, that person needed to have a better social status than she had. Eventually, she discovered Christ. \"His beauty was more radiant than the shining of the sun, His wisdom governed all creation, His riches were spread throughout all the world.\"\n\nShe was a martyr, because she died for her beliefs in God. According to legend, she was supposed to die on a breaking wheel, but the wheel broke as soon as she touched it, so her head was cut off instead. Because of this, her main symbol is the spiked wheel, which is known as a Catherine wheel. The Catholic Church of St. Catherine, one of the first Catholic churches built in Russia, was named after her.\n\n", "id": "222842", "title": "Catherine of Alexandria"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222843", "text": "Seed plants\n\nSeed plants are a group of plants. Gymnosperms and angiosperms form the group. Their seeds have three parts: (1) an embryo, (2) a supply of nutrients for the embryo, and (3) a seed coat. They are also called spermatophytes or phanerogams. The seed plants dominate almost all the environments on land.\n\nThe living spermatophytes form five groups: \n\n\nThe fossil seed ferns (Pteridospermatophyta) were one of the earliest successful groups of land plants, and forests dominated by seed ferns were prevalent in the Permian. \"Glossopteris\" was the most prominent tree genus in the ancient southern supercontinent of Gondwana during the Permian period. By the Triassic period, seed ferns had declined, (perhaps were extinct) and modern gymnosperm groups were abundant and dominant to the Upper Cretaceous, when angiosperms radiated.\n\n", "id": "222843", "title": "Seed plants"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222847", "text": "Andros\n\nAndros is an island of Greece. It is the second biggest island of the Cyclades group. It is in the northwest of Cyclades group near Euboea island. Its total area is . 10,009 people lived there according to the 2001 Greek census. The biggest town of Andros is Andros city.\n\nAndros is mountainous island with gorges and cliffs which end up at the sea. The plants include many flowers, bushes and a few trees mainly in the center of island. The island has many beautiful beaches and beautiful landscape and thanks to these the island is popular for tourists.\n\n", "id": "222847", "title": "Andros"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222860", "text": "Dietzenbach\n\nDietzenbach is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. The town is also the capital of the Offenbach Rural District (\"Landkreis Offenbach\")\n\nDietzenbach is in the \"Rhine-Main area\" 25 km southeast of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 21,67 km large and it is 135 m above sea level. It is a plain area with nearly no hills.\n\nAbout 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor.\n\nThe city consists out of the urban districts \"Neue Stadtmitte\", \"Spessartviertel\", \"Altstadt\", \"Steinberg\", \"Hexenberg\" and \"Wingertsberg\".\n\nThe neighbours of Dietzenbach are: \n\nDietzenbach has 33,067 inhabitants (2008). About 30% of the people living here are from foreign countries. They come from many different nations.\n\nThe climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.\n\nSome local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: \"Hessisch\") and is spoken in the south of Hesse. This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.\n\nIn the 13th century the name of Dietzenbach was written down in a document for the first time.\n\nFormerly the people in the Dietzenbach area were mostly farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine-Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working, leather manufacturing and chemical processing. Many men became workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly.\n\n\n", "id": "222860", "title": "Dietzenbach"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222866", "text": "Octet rule\n\nThe Octet rule is a general rule of thumb that applies to most atoms. Basically, it states that every atom wants to have eight valence electrons in its outermost electron shell. \n\nAccording to the Bohr model, an atom consists of a nucleus of protons and neutrons orbited by a number of electrons. In an ordinary atom, the number of electrons equals the number of protons. If it has more or fewer electrons, it is an ion. In addition, the electrons orbit in electron shells. Each shell can only contain a certain number of electrons before new electrons must migrate to the next shell or \"energy level.\" Starting with the third energy level, however, electrons sometimes move up a level even before the current one is full. \n\nEvery atom tries to have 8 electrons in its outermost (or valence) shell. This may require them to give up, share, or take electrons. As stated above, the number of electrons normally equals the number of protons. This means that some atoms are \"happier\" than others. For example, neon, as with other noble gases, naturally has 8 valence electrons. (10 total - 2 in the 1st energy level=8 in the 2nd) Not surprisingly, neon hardly ever reacts with anything. (Neon lights require high voltages to work.) By contrast, the atoms in the Alkaline metals column, such as sodium, have one valence electron, with a layer containing 8 electrons in the shell below. That means that if sodium only has to give up that one electron in order to complete the octet rule, and does so if given the chance. This is why sodium is so chemically reactive. \n", "id": "222866", "title": "Octet rule"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222870", "text": "Dreieich\n\nDreieich is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany.\n\nDreieich is in the \"Rhine Main area\". Its northern urban district Sprendlingen is 10 km south of Frankfurt. In the south it touches the City of Darmstadt. The whole area of the town is 53.33 km large and it is 140 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.\n\nAbout 35 to 20 million years ago in the Age of Tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor.\n\nThe city consists out of the towns Dreieichenhain and Sprendlingen and the 3 former independent villages Buchschlag, Götzenhain and Offenthal, all now urban districts of Dreieich. On 1 January 1977 they were united and became the City of Dreieich.\n\nThe name Dreieich means \"three oaks\". This is a hint to the former landscape. In the Middle Ages the Dreieich area was a huge forest with a lot of wild animals, where only the emperor had the right of hunting.\n\nThe neighbours of Dreieich are: \n\nDreieich has 40,432 inhabitants (2008).\n\nThe climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.\n\nSome local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: \"Hessisch\"). This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.\n\nIn the 9th century the names of Sprendlingen and Offenthal were written down in documents for the first time. But people think, that especially Sprendlingen is much older because of its name. They say the name was given by the Alamanni, a band of west germanic tribes (see also: germanic peoples), which had settled in the area a long time before.\n\nFormerly the people in the Dreieich area were mostly farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical processing. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly.\n\n\n", "id": "222870", "title": "Dreieich"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222880", "text": "Pichilemu\n\nThe beach of Pichilemu is called one of the best beaches in the world for surfing. The most famous beach in Pichilemu is Punta de Lobos, where competitions are commonly made. The city has become a beach resort.\n\nPromoucaes were the first people that populated Pichilemu. They were hunter gatherers and fishermen. \n\nIn 1887, President José Manuel Balmaceda decreed Pichilemu as a minor dock.\n\nJosé Toribio Medina did his first archeological investigations in Pichilemu, and he published in 1908 \"Los Restos Indígenas de Pichilemu\". He said there that Pedro de Valdivia gave land in what is now central Chile to Juan Gómez de Almagro on February 24, 1544. Pichilemu was between the areas of the Palloquierbico, Topocalma, and Gulaquien.\n\nThe name Pichilemu comes from the Mapudungún words ' (little) and ' (forest).\n\nSome of the first land owners of Pichilemu were the Ortúzar family. Daniel Ortúzar is known as one of the founders of the original village of Pichilemu. The family of Ortúzar Cuevas, from the San Antonio de Petrel Hacienda, made a mid-century maritime dock which was as a fishing port for some years. They also built homes along the dock on what is now Ortúzar Avenue. More recently, other large land owners are Pedro Pavez Polanco and the Hacienda of San Antonio de Petrel. In 1891, during the Chilean Civil War, Daniel Ortúzar and the priest of Alcones were taken prisoners from Pichilemu through the dock. During the war, the dock was burned down. After the civil war, Pichilemu got its formal name and status. President Jorge Montt and his Minister, Manuel José Irarrázabal, the city was officially established on December 22, 1891.\n\nPichilemu has become the historic capital of the province called Cardenal Caro which is named for the first Chilean Catholic Church Cardinal. His father was the first mayor in the city.\n\nAgustín Ross Edwards was a Chilean writer, Member of Parliament, minister and politician.\nRoss was very rich and based on his European background, he bought a 300-hectare piece of land and named it \"\"La Posada\"\" (), or Petren Fund, in 1885. Ross designed an urban place of high environmental value and landscape, turning \"\"La Posada\"\" into a hotel (\"Great Hotel Pichilemu\", later \"Hotel Ross\", or \"Ross Hotel\"), and building a casino, embankments, stone walls, a balcony facing the beach. Additionally, he built a park and a forest of more than 10 hectares. Agustín Ross turned Pichilemu into a summer resort town for the people from Santiago. Some of his buildings were named National Monuments.\n\nPichilemu is located west of San Fernando, Chile and just east of the Pacific Ocean. It is around a three-hour drive to the Andes Mountains. It is also near the coastal mountain range.\n\nEven though most of the forest areas around Pichilemu are covered in Pine and Eucalyptus trees, a native forest (now Municipal Forest) is still there It contains species such as Litres, Quillayes, Boldos, Espinos and Peumos.\n\nPichilemu borders Litueche to the north, Paredones to the south, Marchigüe and Pumanque to the east, and the Pacific Ocean to the west .\n\nIn the 17th century, Pichilemu had 1,468 inhabitants. In 1787, Pichilemu had 1,688 inhabitants. In 1907, Pichilemu had 7,787 inhabitants. However, the city's population progressively decreased; in 1920, it was 7,424; in 1930, it was 6,929, and in 1940, it was 6,570. In 1952, the city's population increased to 7,150 inhabitants; in 1992, that figure had increased to 10,510. As of the 2002 census, 12,392 people live in the town. The census recorded that 9,459 people (76.3%) are from urban places of the city, and 2,933 people (23.7%) are from rural places of the city, there are 6,440 (52.0%) men and 5,952 (48.0%) women. The area of Pichilemu is . According to the CASEN 2002 census, 544 inhabitants (4.4%) of the population of Pichilemu live in extreme poverty compared to the average in the greater Region of O'Higgins of 4.5%, and 1,946 inhabitants (15.7%) live in mild poverty, compared to the regional average of 16.1%.\n\nPichilemu, along with the communes of Placilla, Nancagua, Chépica, Santa Cruz, Pumanque, Palmilla, Peralillo, Navidad, Lolol, Litueche, La Estrella, Chile, Marchihue and Paredones, is part of the Electoral District N° 35 and belongs to the 9th Senatorial Constituency (O'Higgins) of the electoral division of Chile.\n\nThe current Mayor of Pichilemu is Roberto Córdova. The last popularly-elected mayor was Marcelo Cabrera, elected in 2008 with 42.08% of the vote, who served from May 2009 to August 2009 due to legal action. The municipal council selected Córdova as the new mayor on September 9, 2009, almost a year after the municipal elections. The current councilors are Aldo Polanco Contreras, Andrea Aranda Escudero, Viviana Parraguez Ulloa, Juan Cornejo Vargas and Marta Urzúa Púa.\n\nSurfing is one of the tourist attractions, particularly at Punta de Lobos. According to travel guide Fodor's,\n\nEvery October and December the International Championship of Surf takes place at La Puntilla Beach. Punta de Lobos hosts the \"Campeonato Nacional de Surf\" () each summer.\n\nPichilemu has many dark sand beaches. The water is cool year-round, though many tourists choose to swim during the summer months. Bodyboarding, surfing, windsurfing, and kitesurfing can be practiced.\n\nThe beach that is farthest north is San Antonio Beach or Main Beach (), which is found in front of the Ross Park. It is known for good surfing.\n\nLas Terrazas Beach () is the busiest beach during the summer. Many surf schools, \"La Ola Perfecta\" and \"Lobos del Pacífico\", are found near the beach, as is the Caleta de Pescadores (), where fisherman sell their fish. found at the south of the town and around the other side of the Puntilla, the Infiernillo Beach is found. It is used for fishing. At the south of Infiernillo, Playa Hermosa is found, which is great for walking and fishing.\n\nFurther south, from Pichilemu, Punta de Lobos is found .It is an increasingly popular destination for tourists and specially for surfers. Several surf contests are held there, including an international big-wave contest during the Chilean fall. The size of waves varies throughout the year, but large swells in fall and winter can reach heights of up to 50 feet (15 metres). It is widely considered one of the best beaches for surfing worldwide.\n\n", "id": "222880", "title": "Pichilemu"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222897", "text": "Queen of Sheba\n\nThe Queen of Sheba ruled over the ancient kingdom of Sheba, and is mentioned in the Bible and the Qur'an.\n\nThe Queen of Sheba appears in the Bible to King Solomon, because of the fame of his riches and wealth and wisdom. She comes, \"with a very great caravan - with camels carrying spices, large quantities of gold, and precious stones - she came to Solomon and talked with him about all that she had on her mind\" (1 Kings 10:2).\n\nSolomon answered all the questions she asked; returned her quizzes and riddles with wit and correct wisdom; and was kind to her. Awed and astonished by all these things, she rewarded his achievements with \"120 talents of gold, large quantities of spices, and precious stones. Never again were so many spices brought in as those the queen of Sheba gave to King Solomon\" (1 Kings 10:10), and Solomon returned it by giving \"all she desired and asked for, besides what he had given her out of his royal bounty\" (1 Kings 10:13).\n\n\n", "id": "222897", "title": "Queen of Sheba"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222930", "text": "Taqwa\n\nTaqwa (Arabic: تقوى‎ taqwā / taqwá \") is an Islamic word which means to become more aware of Allah.\n", "id": "222930", "title": "Taqwa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222932", "text": "Cynodont\n\nThe Cynodonts are a sub-order of the Therapsida. Cynodonts, one of the most diverse groups of therapsids, are named after their dog-like teeth.\n\nThe taxon is a clade which includes modern mammals and their extinct close relatives, the Mammaliaformes. \n\nThe cynodonts lived in all continents, and their fossil record begins in the Upper Permian 256 million years ago.\n\nThe extinct members of the group were victims of the End-Triassic extinction event, but the line that led to the mammals survived.\n", "id": "222932", "title": "Cynodont"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222941", "text": "Reflex\n\nA reflex is an act where a nerve sends an electric impulse to the spinal cord. After that it comes to the muscle and the muscle reacts.\n\nA reflex action, also known as a reflex, is an involuntary and very quick movement in response to a stimulus. A true reflex is a behaviour which is mediated via the reflex arc; this does not apply to casual uses of the term 'reflex'.\n", "id": "222941", "title": "Reflex"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=222958", "text": "Audi A3\n\nThe Audi A3 is a car produced by Audi since 1996. It is based on the Volkswagen Golf's platform, and it is currently in its Third Generation. The first generation was made between 1996 and 2003 with a 5-door added in 1999 and a facelift in late 2000. The second generation was made from 2003 to 2012, and was facelifted in 2005 and again in 2008 with a convertible version added. The third generation was launched in 2012 with a saloon version added a year later, it was facelifted in 2016, by coincidence the A3's 20th anniversary on sale. \n", "id": "222958", "title": "Audi A3"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223006", "text": "Kobe Bryant\n\nKobe Bryant (born ) is a American former professional basketball player. He most recently played for the Los Angeles Lakers of the National Basketball Association. Bryant played as a shooting guard. During the 2005-2006 season, he scored 81 points in a game against the Toronto Raptors. He is considered as one of the greatest basketball players of all time. \n\nBryant retired on April 13, 2016 after scoring 60 points in a Lakers win against the Utah Jazz.\n\nBryant won five championship rings from 2000-2002 and again in 2009-2010. He was awarded the Most Valuable Player in the 2007-08 NBA season after the Los Angeles Lakers went to the 2008 NBA Playoffs as the first seed in the Western Conference.\n\nIn 2008, Bryant won a gold medal with the United States national team at the Olympics in Beijing.\n\nBryant earned 14 selections for All-NBA teams and 12 for All-Defensive teams. He led the league in scoring twice. He received 4 all-star game MVPs in 14 appearances. He also won 2 finals MVP awards. He was also the youngest player to reach 30,000 points, passing Shaquille O Neal and Michael Jordan and becoming third on the all-time scoring list. Bryant is widely considered to be one of the greatest basketball players in NBA history.\n", "id": "223006", "title": "Kobe Bryant"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223007", "text": "Turks in Germany\n\nThe Turks in Germany are the largest ethnic minority in Germany. The majority of these immigrants came from Turkey when Germany invited them to work as guest workers between 1961-73 due to labour shortages. \n\n", "id": "223007", "title": "Turks in Germany"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223015", "text": "Babenhausen\n\nBabenhausen is a town in the Darmstadt-Dieburg Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany.\n\nBabenhausen is in the \"Rhine-Main area\" 35 km south east of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 66,87 km large and it is 127 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.\n\nAbout 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor.\n\nThe city consists out of the town \"Babenhausen\" and the 5 former independent villages \"Hergershausen\", \"Harpertshausen\", \"Harreshausen\", \"Sickenhofen\" and \"Langstadt\".\n\nThe neighbours of Babenhausen are: \n\nBabenhausen has 16,066 inhabitants (2008).\n\nThe climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.\n\nSome local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: \"Hessisch\") spoken in the south of Hesse. This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.\n\nBabenhausen and the former villages are early places where people lived. In the time of the 7th to the 9th century new places to live got name endings like \"-hausen\" and -\"stadt\". But the names of the places were not written down.\n\nIn 1236 the name of Babenhausen was written down in a document for the first time. About 50 years later it got the town privileges (1295). During the Thirty Years' War the military made a lot of damages to the city. Many people died because of diseases and hunger (Bubonic plague).\n\nFormerly the people in the Babenhausen area were mostly farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore, most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine-Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working, leather manufacturing and chemical processing. Many men became workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly.\n\nIn World War II Babenhausen was a central place for Russian soldiers, who where caught in the fights with the German. They lived here as war prisoners and had to work for the German people. After World War II it became a central place for Jewish people that were prisoners of the NAZI concentration camps.\n\n", "id": "223015", "title": "Babenhausen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223036", "text": "Alamosaurus\n\nAlamosaurus was a titanosaur, a gigantic plant-eating dinosaur from the Upper Cretaceous period, about 73 million to 65 million years ago. \n\n\"Alamosaurus\" was a long-necked, whip-tailed dinosaur. It was about 69 feet (21 m) long and weighed perhaps 33 tons (30000 kg). Fossils have been found in New Mexico, Texas, and Utah. Fossils include fragmentary skeletons (and no skulls).\n\nSkeletal elements of \"Alamosaurus\" are among the most common Late Cretaceous dinosaur fossils found in the United States Southwest and are now used to define the fauna of that time and place. There was a climate change in this area, it became drier, and this caused changes in the fauna. Thomas M. Lehman describes it as \"the abrupt reemergence of a fauna with a superficially 'Jurassic' aspect\". These faunas are dominated by \"Alamosaurus\" and feature abundant \"Quetzalcoatlus\" in Texas. The \"Alamosaurus\" \"Quetzalcoatlus\" association probably represent semi-arid inland plains.\n", "id": "223036", "title": "Alamosaurus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223075", "text": "Computer Space\n\nComputer Space is a video arcade game released in November 1971 by Nutting Associates. It was created by Nolan Bushnell and Ted Dabney, who later started the company Atari.\n", "id": "223075", "title": "Computer Space"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223080", "text": "Iron\n\nIron (chemical symbol Fe) is a chemical element and a metal. It is the second most common metal on Earth, and the most widely-used metal. It makes up much of the Earth's core, and is the fourth most common element in the Earth's crust. \n\nIron is element 26, a transition metal in Group 8. Its atomic number is 26 and its mass number is 55.85. Natural iron occurs with four stable isotopes.\n\nThe metal is used a lot because it is strong and cheap. Iron is the main ingredient used to make steel. Raw iron is magnetic (attracted to magnets), and its compound magnetite is permanently magnetic.\n\nIron is a grey, silvery metal. It is magnetic. It is easy to mine and make, which is why it is so useful. Pure iron is soft and very malleable and is able to stretch a lot, while steel (iron mixed with a little carbon) is stronger and does not stretch as much as iron.\n\nIron is reactive. It reacts with most acids like sulfuric acid. It makes ferrous sulfate when reacted with sulfuric acid. This reaction with sulfuric acid is used to clean metal.\n\nIron reacts with air and water to make rust. When the rust flakes off, more iron is exposed allowing more iron to rust. Eventually, the whole piece of iron is rusted away. Other metals like aluminum do not rust away. Iron can be alloyed with chromium to make stainless steel, which does not rust under most conditions.\n\nIron powder can react with sulfur to make iron(II) sulfide, a hard black solid. Iron also reacts with the halogens to make iron(III) halides, like iron(III) chloride. Iron reacts with the hydrohalic acids to make iron(II) halides like iron(II) chloride.\n\nIron makes chemical compounds with other elements. Normally the other element oxidizes iron. Sometimes two electrons are taken and sometimes three. Compounds where iron has two electrons taken are called ferrous compounds. Compounds where iron has three electrons taken are called ferric compounds. Ferrous compounds have iron in its +2 oxidation state. Ferric compounds have iron in its +3 oxidation state. Iron compounds can be black, brown, yellow, green, or purple.\n\nFerrous compounds are weak reducing agents. Many of them are green or blue. The most common ferrous compound is ferrous sulfate.\n\nFerric compounds are oxidizing agents. Many of them are brown. The most common ferric compound is ferric oxide, the same thing as rust. One reason why iron rusts is because ferric oxide is an oxidizing agent. It oxidizes iron, rusting it even under paint. That is why if there is a small scratch in the paint, the whole thing can rust.\n\nCompounds in the +2 oxidation state are weak reducing agents. They are normally light colored. They react with oxygen in air. They are also known as ferrous compounds.\n\nThese compounds are rare; only one is common. They are found in the ground.\n\nCompounds in the +3 oxidation state are normally brown. They are oxidizing agents. The are corrosive. They are also known as ferric compounds.\n\nThere is a lot of iron in the universe because it is the end point of the nuclear reactions in large stars. It is the last element to be produced before the violent collapse of a supernova scatters the iron into space.\n\nThe metal is the main ingredient in the Earth's core. Near the surface it is found as a ferrous or ferric compound. Some meteorites contain iron in the form of rare minerals. Normally iron is found as hematite ore in the ground, much of which was made in the Great Oxygenation Event. Iron can be extracted from the ore in a blast furnace. Some iron is found as magnetite.\n\nThere are iron compounds in meat. Iron is an essential part of the hemoglobin in red blood cells.\n\nIron is made in large factories called \"ironworks\" by reducing hematite with carbon (coke). This happens in large containers called blast furnaces. The blast furnace is filled with iron ore, coke and limestone. A very hot blast of air is blown in, where it causes the coke to burn. The extreme heat makes the carbon react with iron ore, taking off the oxygen from iron oxides, and making carbon dioxide. The carbon dioxide is a gas and it leaves the mix. There is some sand in with the iron. The limestone, which is made of calcium carbonate, turns into calcium oxide and carbon dioxide when the limestone is very hot. The calcium oxide reacts with the sand to make a liquid called a slag. The slag is drained, leaving only the iron. The reaction will leave pure liquid iron in the blast furnace, where it can be shaped and hardened after cooling down. Almost all ironworks are today part of steel mills, and almost all iron is made into steel.\n\nThere are many ways to work iron. Iron can be hardened by heating a piece of metal and splashing it into cold water. It can be softened by heating it and allowing it to slowly cool. It can also be stamped by a heavy press. It can be pulled into wires. It can be rolled to make sheet metal.\n\nIn the United States, much of the iron was taken from the ground in Minnesota and then sent by ship to Indiana and Michigan where it was made into steel.\n\nIron is used more than any other metal. It is strong and cheap. It is used to make buildings, bridges, nails, screws, pipes, girders, and towers.\n\nIron is not very reactive, so it is both easy and cheap to extract from ores. It is very strong once made into steel, and is used to reinforce concrete.\n\nThere are different types of iron. Cast iron is iron made by the way described above in the article. It is hard and brittle. It is used to make things like storm drain covers, manhole covers, and engine blocks (the main part of an engine).\n\nSteel is the most common form of iron. Steels come in several forms. Mild steel is steel with a low percentage of carbon. It is soft and easily bent, but it does not crack easily. It is used for nails and wires. Carbon steel is harder but more brittle. It is used in tools. \n\nThere are other types of steel. Stainless steel because of the chromium content is rust resistant, and nickel-iron alloys can remain strong at high temperatures. Other steels can be very hard, depending on the alloys added.\n\nWrought iron is easily shaped and used to make fences and chains.\n\nVery pure iron is soft, and can rust (oxidize) easily. It is also fairly reactive.\n\nIron compounds are used for several things. Iron(II) chloride is used to make water clean. Iron(III) chloride is also used. Iron(II) sulfate is used to reduce chromates in cement. Some iron compounds are used in vitamins.\n\nIron deficiency is the most common nutritional deficiency in the world.\n\nOur bodies need iron to help oxygen get to our muscles, because it is at the heart of some essential macromolecules in our bodies such as hemoglobin that cause it to work better. Many cereals have some added iron (the element \"metal\" iron). It is added to cereal in the form of tiny metal filings. It is even possible to see the slivers sometimes by taking an extremely strong magnet and putting it into the box. The magnet will attract these pieces of iron. Eating these small metal shavings are not harmful to our body.\n\nIron is most available to the body when added to amino acids – iron in this form is ten to fifteen times more digestible than than it is as an element. Iron is also found in meat, for example steak. Iron provided by diet supplements is in the form of a chemical, such as Iron(II) sulfate, which is cheap and is absorbed well. The body will not take up more iron than it needs, and it usually needs very little. The iron in red blood cells is recycled by a system which breaks down old cells. Loss of blood by injury or parasite infection may be more serious.\n\nIron is toxic when large amounts are taken into the body. When too many iron pills are taken, people (especially children) get sick. Also, there is a genetic disorder which damages the regulation of iron levels in the body.\n\nThere are chemicals that bind with iron that doctors can prescribe.\n\n", "id": "223080", "title": "Iron"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223081", "text": "Prime Minister's Questions\n\nPrime Minister's Questions (PMQs) is a weekly event in the British Parliament. It is a chance for the Leader of the Opposition and other Members of Parliament to ask the Prime Minister questions. Until 1997 there were two short PMQs each week. Now there is one longer event, which is on a Wednesday. It can often be a loud and rowdy event with lots of MPs shouting. Once Michael Heseltine grabbed the mace and waved it around his head.\n", "id": "223081", "title": "Prime Minister's Questions"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223083", "text": "Leader of the Opposition\n\nThe Leader of the Opposition is the name given to the leader of the largest party not in government in a Westminster System of parliamentary government. The Leader of the Opposition is often seen as the alternative Prime Minister, Premier or Chief Minister. They lead an alternative government known as the Shadow Cabinet or Opposition Front Bench.\n\nIn many Commonwealth realms the full title is \"Leader of Her Majesty's Loyal Opposition\". This is not used in Australia. It is the duty of the Opposition party to ask questions to the Prime Minister or other ministers during Question Time.\n\nThe following is a list of Leaders of the Opposition:\n", "id": "223083", "title": "Leader of the Opposition"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223084", "text": "Age of the Earth\n\nThe age of the Earth is estimated at a little over 4.5 billion years. Working this out was a difficult problem to solve. For most of human history, the basic facts about the planet were unknown. The problem was tackled by Earth scientists in the twentieth century.\n\nModern estimates are based on radioactive dating methods. The oldest minerals on Earth – small crystals of zircon from the Jack Hills of Western Australia – are at least 4.4 billion years old. Ca-Al-rich inclusions – the oldest known solid bits in meteorites formed within the solar system – are 4.567 billion years old. This gives an age for the solar system and an upper limit for the age of Earth.\n\nThe first facts about the Earth were worked out by the Ancient Greeks. A good estimate of the Earth's size was made by Eratosthenes (276 –194 ), using trigonometry. The first estimate of the Earth's age based on evidence was by Benoît de Maillet (1656–1738), a French diplomat, philosopher and naturalist. He thought the Earth must have developed by slow, natural forces. He studied geology in the field. He could see signs of erosion on land and sedimentation in the sea. He hid his ideas under the guise of a talk with an Indian philosopher, to avoid conflict with the Catholic Church. His work stayed in manuscript until after his death, when it was published after its editor had made changes which damaged it. Now there is a better modern edition based on the manuscripts. de Maillet estimated that the Earth was older than two billion years. He also recognized the true nature of fossils, and had early ideas about evolution.\n\nIn the last quarter of the 19th century there was a long-running debate on the age of the Earth. In Charles Lyell's \"Principles of Geology\" (1830–33), he showed that the Earth had changed slowly, and that what we see is the result of gradual changes. This clearly meant that the Earth was ancient, though Lyell did not try to work out how old. His younger friend Charles Darwin believed this, too. Darwin saw that if evolution had taken place, it would have required a long time. Also, a huge amount of sedimentary rock lies between the early fossils in the Cambrian strata, and the present land surface. Darwin and Lyell agreed that it would have taken a very long time for so much rock to be deposited.\n\nIn the first edition of \"On the origin of species\" (1859), Darwin had estimated that the erosion of the Sussex Weald must have taken 300 million years. Both he and Lyell were surprised when the physicist William Thomson (Lord Kelvin) said the Earth could not be as old as they thought. He made the calculation based on how long it must have taken the Earth to cool down to its present temperature, given a starting point of 2,000C. Kelvin's result was based on the idea that the near-surface geothermal gradient reflects the conductive cooling of the solid Earth.\n\nHe did this calculation a number of times, making various assumptions. In 1862 his estimate was between 20 and 400 million years; but in 1866 he reduced the top estimate to 100 million years, and attacked Darwin and Lyle for not taking notice of his calculation. We know Darwin was anxious and worried that this would not be long enough to allow for evolution. Thomas Henry Huxley remarked that Kelvin's calculations were good, but his assumptions were wrong. In 1897 Kelvin did the calculation one last time, and came up with 20 to 40 million years. This, of course, would definitely not be long enough to allow for evolution.\n\nRight at the end of the 19th century, someone realised that if the mantle was a highly viscous (sticky) fluid, that would make a great difference to the calculations. In 1895, John Perry, a former assistant to Kelvin, produced an age of Earth estimate of 2 to 3 billion years old using a model of a convective mantle and thin crust.\n\nIn Kelvin’s model, heat on the Earth’s surface\nis derived from the cooling of a shallow outer crust, assuming a solid Earth. But if the conductivity inside the Earth were much higher than at the surface, then the Earth's core and lower mantle would also cool. This would provide a huge store of energy to the surface. In that case, Kelvin’s estimate of the age of the Earth would be too low by many times.\n\nPerry's main reason was that convection in the fluid, or partly fluid, interior of the Earth\nwould transfer heat much more effectively than would conduction:\n\nKelvin stuck by his estimate of 100 million years, and later reduced the estimate to about 20 million years.\n\nWe now know that the existence of a viscous fluid under a thin crust is a much greater factor than the discovery of radioactivity, which was the textbook explanation for many years. The rediscovery and reexamination of Perry's work is quite recent.\n\nIn 1896 discovered radioactivity. In 1903, he shared the Nobel Prize in Physics with Pierre and Marie Curie \"in recognition of the extraordinary services he has rendered by his discovery of spontaneous radioactivity\".\n\nEventually, it was realized that radioactivity was a major source of heat inside the Earth. In 1921 came the first modern estimate, using radiometric dating. It was based on uranium-lead dating: the rate of decay of uranium to lead in the crust of the Earth, by Henry Norris Russell. He came up with 2 to 8 billion years. In 1949, H.E. Suess estimated 4 to 5 billion years, based on a whole array of radioactive isotopes. This is close to the time we estimate today, which has been refined further to about 4,560 million years.\n\nThe calculation makes use of convection in a viscous fluid as well as radioactivity, so it combines Perry's idea with the effect of radioactivity, even though Perry's contribution had been forgotten. The later knowledge of plate tectonics made it quite certain that the lower mantle was a viscous fluid.\n\nThe formation and evolution of the Solar System is estimated to have begun 4.568 billion years ago with the gravitational collapse of a small part of a giant molecular cloud. Basically, the whole system developed in the same period of time.\n\nMany societies assumed the Earth had always been as it is now. Some religions raised the question of its age: the Hindu religion got closest to the present-day scientific estimate. Some Christians and Jews believe the Genesis creation narrative is literally true, which would mean that the Earth was created between 5000 and 10,000 years ago. However, these days most people think such questions are best answered by scientific methods.\n\n", "id": "223084", "title": "Age of the Earth"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223091", "text": "Angara (rocket family)\n\nAngara is a family of rockets which are being developed in Russia. The family contains many different rockets. For example, there is a rocket for lifting small payloads and a rocket for lifting heavy payloads. The rockets are designed by a company called Khrunichev State Research and Production Space Center. The first rocket is expected to be ready in 2012.\n\nAngara is being developed using money given by the Russian government. The government decided to finance Angara because they wanted to make sure that Russia has independent access to space. Many of Russia's current rockets can only be launched from Baikonour Cosmodrome in Kazakshtan. Many of them also use foreign technology. However, Angara is better since it does not use any foreign technology (it is 100% Russian) and can be launched from Plesetsk Cosmodrome, located in Russian territory. Another reason why it was decided to build Angara is because Russia needed a rocket which does not use toxic fuels, like some current rockets do.\n\nThe first part of all Angara rockets consists of an engine called Universal Rocket Module (in short: URM). The small version, Angara 1.1 has only one URM, while the heavier Angara 5 has 5 URMs. For this reason, Angara 5 can lift heavier payloads. The second part (called the second stage) of Angara 1.1 is called Briz-KM and the second stage of Angara 5 is called Block I. \n\nThe rockets are meant for launching unmanned payloads such as satellites. However, Khrunichev has also suggested building a version that could launch humans into space: Angara 5P. \n\nAll Angara versions can be launched from a single launch pad. \n\nThe first flight of Angara is expected to take place in 2012 from Plesetsk Cosmodrome. In the future, the flights on Angara rockets will be sold to other companies, who want to get their satellites into space. The price for an Angara 1.1 flight is expected to be about 20 million dollars.\n", "id": "223091", "title": "Angara (rocket family)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223110", "text": "Samsara\n\nSamsara is a Buddhist term, meaning the conditioned state of mind. It is the cycle of ignorance, leading to disturbing emotions and clumsy actions. They in turn are cause for suffering and new disturbing feelings and so on. According to Buddha’s teachings there are three main disturbing feelings: ignorance, anger and desire. They are called three poisons of mind and are told to have 84 000 combinations. The only way to completely get rid of suffering is to reach Nirvana or the perfect state of Buddha. All the teachings Buddha gives lead to this goal. \n\nThere are six realms of samsara, connected to six specific emotions:\n", "id": "223110", "title": "Samsara"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223115", "text": "Michael Heseltine\n\nMichael Gordon R. Dibdin Heseltine, Baron Heseltine, CH, PC (born 21 March 1933) is a British politician and businessman. He was a Member of Parliament from 1966 to 2001 as a member of the Conservative Party.\n\nHe was born in Swansea, Wales and studied at the University of Oxford. He was briefly conscripted into the army, before becoming a self-made millionaire in the 1960s. At the 1966 General Election, Heseltine became the Member of Parliament for the constituency of Tavistock in Devon. From 1970 to 1974, he was a junior minister in the government of Edward Heath. From 1979 to 1983, he was in the cabinet of Margaret Thatcher as Secretary of State for the Environment. He was Defence Secretary from 1983 to 1986, but resigned in 1986 and became a backbencher.\n\nAs a backbencher, Heseltine became very critical of Thatcher's government and refused to support the Poll Tax in 1989. In November 1990, Heseltine challenged Thatcher for Conservative Party leadership and this led to Thatcher resigning, but Heseltine did not get to become party leader. New Conservative Prime Minister John Major made Heseltine Secretary of State for the Environment (1990-1992), President of the Board of Trade (1992-1995) and Deputy Prime Minister (1995-1997).\n\nIn 2001, Heseltine stood down as an MP and entered the House of Lords. He was considered to be one of Britain's top 200 richest people in 2004, owning a wealth of about £240 million.\n\n\n", "id": "223115", "title": "Michael Heseltine"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223183", "text": "Geff Harrison\n\nGeff Harrison (also known as Richie West, August 24, 1947, Manchester, United Kingdom), is an English singer-songwriter, mostly known for his bands King Ping Meh and Twenty Sixty Six And Then. He created the band Modern Talking along with Dieter Bohlen.\n\nIn January 20, 1986, Harrison filled a lawsuit against Dieter Bohlen claiming that he wrote English lyrics for Modern Talking and C.C.Catch, but the lawsuit was settled out of court. According to the ruling of the court, Bohlen and Harrison created the group Modern Talking together.\n", "id": "223183", "title": "Geff Harrison"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223210", "text": "James McAuley\n\nJames Phillip McAuley (12 October 1917 – 15 October 1976) was an Australian poet who also composed hymns. He was a Catholic whose hymns were used in Catholic liturgy and now by other denominations. McAuley was born in Lakemba, Sydney. His first book of verse, \"Under Aldebaran\", was published in 1946. He died of liver cancer in Hobart.\n", "id": "223210", "title": "James McAuley"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223243", "text": "Freedom of information\n\nFreedom of information is the right to freedom of expression on the Internet and other information technology. Freedom of information is the ability to access the Web without censorship or restrictions. \n\nFreedom of information is a human right recognised in international law. Freedom of speech includes not only the text and pictures but also the means of expression. Freedom of information may also refer to the right to privacy in the context of the Internet and information technology. The \"right to privacy\" is a human right and freedom of information is an extension of this right.\n\n", "id": "223243", "title": "Freedom of information"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223250", "text": "Elijah\n\nElijah of Tishbe is a person in the Abrahamic religions. His name means \"Yahweh is God,\" was a prophet in Israel in the 9th century BC. He appears in the Hebrew Bible, Baha'i scripture, Mishnah, New Testament, and the Qur'an. He is best known for being Israel's most famous prophet, his brave challenge to Baal's prophets on Mt. Carmel, and going up to heaven in a whirlwind.\n\nElijah went to the king, Ahab, who rejected God because of his even more sinful wife, Jezebel of Tyre, who stood as a symbol of Israel's unfaithfulness. He went to Ahab and God said through his lips (1 Kings chapter 17, NIV), \"As the Lord, the God of Israel lives, whom I serve, there will be neither dew nor rain in the next few years except at my word.\"\nThen Elijah followed the Lord's command and \"went eastward and hid in the Kerith Ravine, east of the Jordan.\"\nHe \"drank from the brook, and God had ordered ravens to feed him there\". \nThe ravens brought him bread and meat in the morning and bread and meat in the evening, and he drank from the brook (because it did not rain, as he prophesied).\n\nBut then the brook dried up because of so little rain, and Elijah received the message from the Lord: \"Go at once to Zarephath of Sidon and stay there. I have commanded a widow in the place to supply you with food\" (1 Kings 17:9). \nSo Elijah went, and met the widow gathering sticks to make the last meal for her son and herself. \nBut when he called her and requested her to get himself some jar in a water and bread, she objected, (1 Kings 17:12) \"As surely as the Lord your God lives, I don't have any bread - only a handful of flour in a jar and a little oil in a jug. I am gathering a few sticks to take home and make a meal for myself and my son, that we may eat it - and die.\" \nThen Elijah said to the widow, \"Don't be afraid. Go home and do as you have said. But first make a small cake of bread for me from what you have and bring it to me, and then make something for yourself and your son. For this is what the Lord, the God of Israel says: 'The jar of flour will not be used up nd the jug of oil will not run dry until the day the Lord gives rain on the land.'\" So the widow did as Elijah told her to do, and there was enough food in the widow's house for everybody.\n\nBut then the son of the widow grew ill. He finally, after growing more and more worse, stopped breathing. \nThe widow became so very worried, and called Elijah--\"What do you have against me, man of God? Did you come to remind me of my sin and kill my son?\" \nAnd Elijah replied, \"Give me your son.\" He took him and carried him to the upper room where he was staying, and laid him on his bed. Then he cried out to the Lord, \"O Lord my God, have you brought tragedy also upon this widow I am staying with, by causing her son to die?\" Then he stretched himself upon the boy three times (probably to give to the boy his body warmth, though his prayer shows that he expected the life of the child to come back as an answer to prayer, not by physical touch), and cried out to the Lord, \"O Lord my God, let this boy's life return to him!\"\nAnd the boy returned to life, making the woman admit that Elijah is \"a man of God and that the word of the Lord from your mouth is the truth\": a confession the Lord's own people Israel had not made. This is the first example of raising the dead in the Bible.\n\nThen Elijah went to \"present himself to Ahab\" as the Lord commanded him to, and he met Obadiah, the honorable man who had kept loyal to the Lord and had hidden 100 priests of God that King Ahab had tried to kill. Obadiah recognized Elijah and respectfully bowed down to the ground, exclaiming, \"Is it really you, my lord Elijah?\" \nElijah replied yes, and ordered him to go and tell Ahab that he is here. Obadiah refused, crying, \"What have I done you wrong that you are handing your servant over to Ahab to be put to death?\" and declaring how he had \"hid a hundred of the Lord's prophets in two caves, fifty in each, and supplied them with food and water.\" and that if Ahab came and saw that Elijah was gone and not here, he would surely kill him.\n\nElijah replied, the more the calmly, \"As the Lord Almighty lives, whom I serve, I will surely present myself to Ahab today.\"\nSo Obadiah went to meet Ahab and told him, and Ahab went to meet Elijah. They argued, and Elijah told Ahab to \"summon the people from all over Israel\" to meet him on the Mount Carmel, and to \"bring the four hundred and fifty prophets of Baal and the four hundred prophets of Asherah, who eat at Jezebel's table\". And surprisingly, Ahab obeyed him.\n\nThen, when all the Israelis and prophets of Baal were summoned, they prepared two altars - one for Elijah, and for the Lord the God of Israel - and one for the priests of Baal. Then Elijah went to the people and said, \"How long will you waver between two opinions? If the Lord is God, follow him; but if Baal is God, follow him.\" but the people did nor say anything, so he continued: \"I am the only one of the Lord's prophets left, but Baal has four hundred and fifty prophets. Get two bulls for us. Let them choose one for themselves, and let them cut it into pieces and put it on the wood but not set fire to it. I will prepare the other bull and put it on the wood but not set fire to it. Then you call on the name of your god, and I will call on the name of the Lord. The god who answers by fire--he is the God.\" (1 Kings 18:20)\n\nThe people agreed to this, and they did as Elijah said. Then the priests of Baal all prepared the bull, and called to Baal all morning till noon. \"O Baal, answer us!\" but the so-called \"Baal\" made no reply at all - and the prophets grew weary and discouraged. Elijah, however, was pleased, and he teased them (1 King 18:27), \"Shout louder! Surely he is a god! Perhaps he is deep in thought, or busy, or traveling. Maybe he is sleeping and must be awakened.\" So they shouted even louder and slashed themselves with swords and spears wildly, as was their custom, until the blood flowed from their wounds. After midday passed, it was Elijah's turn - and nobody paid attention to the Baal prophets anymore - so he prepared the sacrifice, and ordered (1 Kings 18:33), \"Fill four large jars with water and pour it on the offering and on the wood.\"\n\n(verse 34) And he said, \"Do it again.\" and they did it again, and a third time, as he said.\nThen, after there was so much water it ran down the trench, he stepped forward and prayed (1 Kings 18:36 to 37): \"O Lord, God of Abraham, Isaac and Israel, let it be known today that you are God in Israel and that I am your servant and have done all these things at your command. Answer me, O Lord, answer me, so these people will know that you, O Lord, are God, and that you are turning their hearts back again.\"\n\nThen the fire of the Lord fell and burned up the sacrifice, the wood, the stones and the soil, and also licked up the water in the trench. All the people were awed, and they \"fell prostrate\" and repented. Then they all seized the prophets of Baal, as Elijah had told them to, and slaughtered them at Kishon Valley. And Ahab went off to eat and drink as Elijah told him to. Then, after climbing the mountain of Carmel and asking his servant seven times if he saw anything above the ocean, the servant answered him at the seventh time--\"A cloud as small as a man's hand is rising from the sea.\" And Elijah told his servant to inform Ahab to go home, because a big rainstorm was coming. Ahab rushed into his chariot and raced home, but the \"Power of the Lord came upon Elijah and, tucking his cloak into his belt, he ran ahead of Ahab all the way to Jezreel\".\n\nAfter that, Ahab told to Jezebel about what had happened about Elijah and how the prophets of Baal had been killed by the people of Israel. Jezebel got angry, and sent a message to Elijah that \"by this time of the day tomorrow\" she would make his \"life like that of one of them\", referring to the prophets of Baal. \nElijah became scared, and ran away to Beersheba in Judah, left his servant there, and went ahead for a day's journey in the desert. Finally, he came to a broom tree, sat down under it and prayed that he might die (1 Kings 19:4). \"I have had enough, Lord,\" he complained unhappily, \"Take my life; I am no better than my ancestors.\" And he lay down and fell asleep. But the Lord sent an angel to wake him up and feed him some water and a cake of bread \"baked over hot coals\". Elijah ate and drank and lay down again, and the angel came back again and woke him, and gave him more food. Strengthened by that food, Elijah got up and traveled forty days and forty nights until he reached Horeb, the mountain of God. There he went into a cave and spent the night. \n\nAnd the Lord appeared to him and asked, \"What are you doing here, Elijah?\"\nHe replied not the answer to the Lord's question, but instead of how he had \"been very zealous for the Lord God Almighty\" and how the Israelites were being unfair to him. The Lord told him to go out and stand on the mountain in the presence of the Lord.\nThen the Lord sent a great and powerful wind, and an earthquake, a fire, but the Lord was not in neither: and finally he came in a gentle whisper, and Elijah went out, pulling his cloak over his face. The Lord had tried to show him through all those winds and earthquakes and fires that the Lord was not always harsh, but was more gentle. The Lord asked once again, \"What are you doing here, Elijah?\" but Elijah again ignored the question and complained about how he had been \"Zealous for the Lord God Almighty\". So the Lord told him to go anoint many new political and religious leaders, and he did. And he took Elisha, for his next prophet and companion.\n\nAfter Ahab died, Ahaziah was crowned king, and he became ill. So he sent some people to consult Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron, to see if he would recover. However, God was very angry and told Elijah to prophesy against Ahaziah. So on the way, Elijah went and met the servants, and told them (2 Kings 1:6) as the Lord had instructed him, \"Go back to the king who sent you and tell him, 'This is what the Lord says:Is it because there was no God in Israel that you are sending men to consult Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore (Because of this) you will not leave the bed you are lying on. You will certainly (surely) die!'\" And the messengers did has he was told. At King Ahaziah's questions, they described Elijah as \"a man with a garment of hair and with a leather belt around his waist\". Elijah's cloak was probably of sheepskin or camel's hair, like John the Baptist's, and showed a big difference from the other rich, well-dressed people at that time. He was protesting against the selfishness of the king and the upper classes. The king recognized Elijah by that description (because Elijah had met Ahab, his father, many times), and sent a captain and fifty men to get him. Maybe Ahaziah thought, like many people at that time who did not believe in God, that if he killed Elijah or forced him to change the curse, it would not happen.\n\nThe captain he sent said to Elijah, who was sitting on the top of a hill, \"Man of God, the king says, 'Come down!'\" Ahaziah was trying to place Elijah, the prophet, under his, a king's, power. According to Israel's covenant (promise) with God, the king was supposed to be under the power of the word of the Lord spoken by his prophets.\n\nBut Elijah did not come down instead said (2 Kings 1:10, NIV) \"If I am a man of God, may fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men! Then fire fell from heaven and consumed the captain and his men. With this, Elijah was showing the king that in Israel, a king was only a servant of the real king, God. Later, Jesus's warning to his disciples when they were trying to call fire down to destroy the Samaritans was not to disapprove of what Elijah did, but to show his disciples that the problem between Elijah and the king and the unfaithfulness of the Samaritans was very different.\n\nThe king sent to Elijah another captain with his fifty men, and they, too, were burned up by fire. Finally, the king sent a third captain with his fifty men, who \"...fell on his knees before Elijah...\" and bowed before him, humbly asking him to come. Elijah was told by the angel of the Lord to go down, so he went down and told the king again, \"You will certainly die!\" \"So he died, according to the word of the Lord that Elijah had spoken\". (2 Kings 1:17, NIV)\n\nAfter that, Elijah went to Elisha, and they both went on their way from Gilgal. Elijah said to Elisha, \"Stay here; the Lord has sent me to Bethel.\" but Elijah insisted upon going, so they went down together to Bethel. \nThe company of the prophets at Bethel came out to Elisha and asked, \"Do you know that the Lord is going to take your master from you today?\"\nElisha said that he knew; but warned them not to speak of it. Then Elijah said to him to stay there, and that the Lord had sent him to the Jordan by himself, but Elisha did not obey, and insisted on going with Elijah. Elijah then asked, \"Tell me, what can I do for you before I am taken from you?\" and Elisha replied: \"Let me inherit a double portion of your spirit.\"\nElijah then agreed, but only if Elisha would see him be taken to heaven. They were walking along when suddenly a chariot of fire and horses of fire appeared and separated the two of them, and Elijah went up to heaven in a whirlwind. Elisha cried, \"My father! My father! The chariots and horsemen of Israel!\" Elisha showed Elijah as a symbol of the true strength of Israel. Elisha picked up Elijah's cloak and used it to divide the water in the river of Jordan: so this cloak symbolized that Elisha had now taken Elijah's place.\n\n", "id": "223250", "title": "Elijah"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223284", "text": "Isaac Watts\n\nIsaac Watts (17 July 1674 – 25 November 1748) was an English pastor, preacher, poet, and hymn writer. He is often called the \"Father of English Hymnody\": he was the first popular English hymn writer. Because of his short height and large head, in all his portraits Isaac Watts wore a large gown. He wrote about 600 hymns including \"When I Survey the Wondrous Cross\", \"Am I a Soldier of the Cross\", and \"Joy to the World\". He is buried today in Bun­hill Fields Cem­etary, Lon­don, Eng­land.\n\nIsaac Watts was born in 1674 as a small and sickly child. At this time, his father was in prison for being a nonconformist preacher. At that time in England, a man who did not preach the way the leaders of the Church of England thought about God could go to prison. Christians who were \"dissenters\" met secretly in fields and barns to hide from people who would report them. Dissenters were fined for preaching anywhere if five or more people were there. Isaac Watts gave much encouragement for people to continue to believe in Christ.\n\nIsaac, even when he was young, was good at and liked rhyming. He was a good student and liked books. Once, when his mother said she would give a farthing (a coin) to one of her husband's students who could make the best rhyme, Isaac tried and made this couplet:\n\n\"I write not this for a farthing, but to try \nHow I your farthing writers can outvie’.\"\n\nWhen he was six, he made some verses. When his mother saw them, she could hardly believe he had written them. So Isaac gave his mother a poem he had made with his name:\n\nI am a vile polluted lump of earth\nS-o I've continu'd ever since my birth\nA-lthough Jehovah grace does daily give me\nA-ssure this monster Satan will deceive me\nC-ome, therefore, Lord, from Satan's claws relieve me.\n\nW-ash me in thy blood, O Christ\nA-nd grace divine impart\nT-hen search and try the corners of my heart\nT-hat I in all things may be fit to do\nS-ervice to thee, and sing thy praises too.\n\nWhen he was in his early twenties, Isaac saw a need in the church. He told his father that the psalms sung in the church were rough and hard. Isaac's father challenged him to write better songs, and Isaac began writing hymns. Watts produced many hymns for which he is now famous.\n\nWatts also saw that children needed to have hymns that suited their age, hymns that they could sing in their everyday life. Because of this, in 1720 he wrote \"Divine and Moral Songs, for the Use of Children\". These songs were about problems of youth at that time and still today, with titles like \"Against Evil Company\" and \"Against Pride in Clothes\".\n\nWatts lived a long and full life preaching about Jesus, teaching, and writing books and hymns. When he died, his papers were given to Yale University.\n\nSome of Isaac Watts' most well known and loved songs are:\n", "id": "223284", "title": "Isaac Watts"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223306", "text": "Nowy Dwór Królewski\n\nNowy Dwór Królewski is a village in the administrative district of Gmina Papowo Biskupie, within Chełmno County, Kuyavian-Pomeranian Voivodeship, in north-central Poland.\n", "id": "223306", "title": "Nowy Dwór Królewski"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223316", "text": "Brecht (disambiguation)\n\nBrecht can be any of the following:\n\n\n", "id": "223316", "title": "Brecht (disambiguation)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223318", "text": "Arpin, Wisconsin\n\nArpin is a village of Wood County in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 337 people were living in Arpin as of 2000. Arpin has a total area of 0.9 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.\n", "id": "223318", "title": "Arpin, Wisconsin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223320", "text": "Wood County, Wisconsin\n\nWood County is a county in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 75,555 people were living in Wood County as of 2000. The county seat of Wood County is Wisconsin Rapids. \n\nWood County has a total area of 809 square miles, says the U.S. Census Bureau.\n\n\nThe following are the cities, villages, and towns of Wood County:\n\n\nThe following are the unincorporated communities of Wood County:\n\n\n", "id": "223320", "title": "Wood County, Wisconsin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223333", "text": "Invasion of the Bane\n\n\"Invasion of the Bane\" is the first episode of The Sarah Jane Adventures, which is a British science fiction television series about a woman called Sarah Jane Smith (Elisabeth Sladen). It was broadcast on 1st January 2007 and although it is written as a pilot episode, it is not. This is because a series was agreed before the pilot episode was actually written.\nIn this episode, a young girl called Maria Jackson discovers aliens. When she discovers that an alien race called the Bane have created a drink that can control people's minds, she decides to team up with Sarah Jane Smith, a journalist, to stop them.\n\nThis episode begins with Maria Jackson (Yasmin Paige) and her divorced father, Alan Jackson (Joseph Millson), moving into the house across the road from Sarah Jane Smith. That night, a bright, light that is coming from Sarah Jane's house wakes Maria up. Maria decides to find out what it is and find that it is an alien called a Star Poet.\nThe next morning, her friend and neighbour, Kelsey Hooper (Porsha Lawrence Mavour) invites her to go to the Bubble Shock open day. They hop onto the free Bubble Shock bus and get taken to the factory. When they arrive, a guard takes them to a security scanner. The scanner takes their DNA and transfers it to \"the Archetype\" (Thomas Knight) whilst being watched by Mrs Wormwood (Samantha Bond).\nSarah Jane has overheard the girls' plans and decides to follow them. When she is the factory she interviews Mrs Wormwood. She asks her how she gained approval of her drink so quickly and why she was not able to analyse \"Bane\", an ingredient only found in Bubble Shock. Mrs Wormwood simply says that Bubble Shock satisfies the needs of the Western world. She then throws Sarah Jane out. Sarah Jane is almost killed by a secretary of Mrs Wormwood.\nKelsey gets bored and walks out of the tour to phone her friend, but disturbs the Bane Mother. Mrs Wormwood tells her staff not to ring any sirens and to kill Sarah Jane Smith. When Maria tries to phone Kelsey, she sets off more alarms. These alarms cause the Archetype to escape. While Maria is escaping, she bumps into the Archetpye and takes him to the safety of the women's bathroom. He can only mimic her. Sarah Jane then finds them and helps them to escape. When they are at home, Sarah Jane warns Maria not to keep following her because her life is too dangerous.\nMeanwhile, the guards at the factory are speaking to Kelsey. She complains about her treatment and to shut her up, Mrs Wormwood reveals her true, alien body. She then finds out that Kelsey and Sarah Jane live on the same street and, therefore, tells her PR (Jamie Davis) to take Kelsey home. Maria then realises that the Bane know about Sarah Jane and the PR reveals his true body as well, chasing Maria, Sarah Jane and Kelsey into Sarah Jane's house.\nAfter stopping the PR, Sarah Jane takes the kids to her attic and tells them the truth. She tells them that aliens exist and then years ago, she met a wonderful man called \"The Doctor\". She travelled in Time and Space but then, the adventures stopped and she was back on Earth. She then told them that by accident, she and The Doctor met again and she then found out that he still liked her.\nSarah Jane Smith finally understands that the ingredient was sentient and rings up Mrs Wormwood and asks her to leave Earth. But Mrs Wormwood refuses and uses Bubble Shock to control the majority of the human race. Sarah Jane breaks into the factory immediately by driving the bus into the wall and the Bane Mother is revealed. She explains that she made the Archetype with different people's DNA and that the Archetype is the perfect human being. The Archetype uses the Bane technology to rescue the gang and to explode the factory.\nLater on, Sarah Jane agrees to adopt the Archetype and they decide to call him \"Luke\" because Sarah Jane said that if she ever had a son, she would call it \"Luke\". The episode ends with Sarah Jane telling us that if we look hard enough, we might just find aliens.\n\nElisabeth Sladen played Sarah Jane Smith in Doctor Who between the years of 1973 and 1976. She played along side Jon Pertwee (The Third Doctor) and Tom Baker (The Forth Doctor). The BBC wanted her to return for some more adventures with the Fourth and Fifth Doctors but she declines. However, she agreed to star in the Special, The Five Doctors. She also agreed to star in one episode of a spin-off series K-9 and Company. She took a break from acting to raise a family but returned in the 2006 episode School Reunion starring David Tennant as the Tenth Doctor. And then she and Thomas Knight starred in the Series Four finale The Stolen Earth/Journey's End. The Sarah Jane adventures is still ongoing and it is in its third series.\nOn the 8th December 2008, the first scene of this episode was shown on BBC Breakfast and online, on the Doctor Who Advent Calendar. The clip showed Sarah Jane interviewing Mrs Wormwood.\nWhen the episode was first broadcast, it received 2.9 million viewers, 15% of the audience share, of which 20% were under 16., but lost out to a showing of \"Chitty Chitty Bang Bang\" on ITV1.\n\n", "id": "223333", "title": "Invasion of the Bane"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223346", "text": "List of characters in The Sarah Jane Adventures\n\nThis is a list of the characters in \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" series.\n\nSarah Jane Smith is a journalist who writes about and fights aliens. She used to travel through time and space with a man called The Doctor. Now she lives on Bannerman road with her adopted son, Luke.\n\nLuke was made by the Bane to observe human brain patterns and is an assembly to the whole human race. In Series 4, Luke was haunted by the Nightmare Man and Luke's first dream would bring serious problems to the human race. In Series 2, Mrs Wormwood returns, kiddnapping Luke.\n\nMaria is a good friend to Sarah Jane and the others. In the first episode, \"Invasion of the Bane\", Maria's friend Kelsey Hooper took her to the Bubbleshock factory, where Maria met Luke after he got activated, and where Maria's life changed- forever.\n\nShe was in episodes between \"Invasion of the Bane\" and \"the Last Sontaran\". She also appeared for a short while in the \"Mark of the Berserker\".\n\nClyde is a member of the group, and helps Sarah Jane.\n\nhe first started in the episode in the revenge of the slitheen\n\nRani first arrived on Bannerman Road when her dad became headmaster of the local school.\n\nK-9 is Sarah Jane's robot dog.\n\nHe is Maria's father. He is divorced and for the majority of the series, he was unaware that his daughter was secretly fighting aliens. At the end of Series One, he found out and decided that he was going to help. He recently took a job in America, meaning that he had to take Maria with him.\nChrissie is Maria's mum. She cannot remember Sarah Jane's name and has been heard calling her Suzie-Q, Sally-Anne, Mary Jane and Calamity Jane.\n\nRani's parents. Haresh is the headmaster of the local High School and although he's very friendly, he does dislike it when children are naughty. In comparison, his wife, Gita is very forgetful, and calls Sarah-Jane 'Sarah'.\n\nHe's a Time Lord from the planet Gallifrey. Sarah Jane once travelled with him in Time and Space and after telling the others about her wonderful adventures, they eventually get to meet him at Sarah Jane's wedding.\n\nThis alien can enter people's body's and take over speech and movement. They are very tricky to spot because of this.\nThese are lights from before the Big Bang with a lot of powers. The Ancient Lights took over Martin Trueman and started to use him to prophesise an end to the world. They tried to take over people starsign by starsign.\nhe used people to get rich instead of cleaning toilets\nLarge, tentacle-covered aliens which can disguise themselves as humans. They can slightly mind-read and tried to enslave the human race with Bubble Shock, Invasion of the Bane. They also tried to create the Perfect Human and this was Luke Smith.\n\nThese were a group of aliens which wore pendants, allowing them to obtain psychic powers. A Beserker Pendant was found by a boy at Park Vale School and this allowed his to do as he pleased. It was later found by Clyde's father. When they hold the pendant it's most common that they will have blue lines across their body.\n\nThe Blathereen are similar to the Slitheen (see below) in the fact that they are a family and not a species. The Blathereen, unlike the Slitheen, are orange and their main aim is to spread peace throughout the universe. Sarah Jane and the gang was tricked by a pair of Blathereen-Slitheen to trust them. They planted a poisonous plant around the Earth and people everywhere grew sick.\n\nShe is a red alien from an unknown species that escaped during a war between her people and the Daleks. Her Ship crashed in a seaside resort in Danemouth and Ship ordered the caretaker of a funfair to look after her until it had rebuilt.\nOne look at the Gorgon and you will turn to stone. That's what happened to Maria's father. They originate from the planet Gorgos.\nThe Groske are a different race to the Graske, they are notably blue instead of pink in skin colour. Some Groske crash-landed and were found by U.N.I.T. in 2006. Since then they have earned their keep as workmen in U.N.I.T. bases. Groske can be mistaken for Graske if you have not met them before, as Clyde, Rani and Sarah-Jane find out in Death of the Doctor, but Groske seem to have a hatred for the Graske. This two-part episode is the first appearance of the Groske.\n\nInterstellar thug police from the planet Jadoon and resemble rhino-headed soldiers. They are hired by others to solve crimes. In Prisoner of the Judoon, one was seen chasing an Androvax. They wear a black uniform.\nFrom the planet Griffoth, Krislok works for the Trickster and steals people from Time and Space and allows the Trickster to make them vanish from the Time Lines. Krislok was also tricked by the Trickster as his spaceship was about to crash into working for him for Eternity.\n\nHe is a member of the bug-like species Uvodni. He was a warrior for his species until he was injured and had to stop. He took control of Laser Tag centres across the world and the winning children were beamed up to a space station far above Earth to be prepared to fight in a war. Little did the General know, the war was actually over. With that, the children were returned.\nThe famous painting by Leonardo da Vinci came alive due to an alien organism in the paint that Leonardo used. Hidden below the art gallery is a painting so terrifying that they call it The Abomination.\n\nMr Smith is Sarah Jane's supercomputer that she hides in her wall. It is really a Xylock- an alien race that has a huge memory store. It first communicated with Sarah Jane's laptop when she bought the house and it promised Sarah Jane that he would help her in keeping the Earth safe for as long as he was functional. There is occasional banter between it and K-9.\nThe Slitheen are a family of aliens from the planet Raxacoricofallapatorius. They go around the galaxy causing trouble and their main aim in life is to make as much money as possible regardless of whom they harm in the process. In The Lost Boy, they planned to bring the moon crashing down. To defeat these green monsters, you need to throw vinegar-based products on them, as they are made of calcium and the result is a huge, gooey explosion.\n\nClone species from the planet Sontar. They love wars and will do anything for a fight. They complained in \"Doctor Who\" for not being allowed to take part in the Time War.\n\nStar Poets are a race of fictional aliens. After Maria Jackson saw Sarah Jane Smith talking to one in \"The Sarah Jane Adventures\" episode called Invasion of the Bane. It was revealed that Sarah Jane was using the Star Poet for help with a poem. Sarah Jane was given a device that would bring the Star Poet back, if she ever needed its help again. Another member of the same species, with the name Mary, was seen in the \"Torchwood\" episode \"Greeks Bearing Gifts\". Torchwood showed that the race can communicate telepathically using pendants and Sarah Jane Adventures showed that they could also fly. On the official Sarah Jane Adventures website, Mr Smith stated that they were \"Butterfly People\"\", but there have been many Torchwood references to them as being \"Arcateenian\". In situations like this, the continuity is left unknown.\n\nAn evil being with no eyes hidden within a veil. All he wants to do is wreak havoc. He first took Sarah Jane out of her Time Line and replaced her with Andrea Yates- something that never happened. Because of this, the end of the world nearly happened. Secondly, he tempted Sarah Jane to save her parents that she never knew before they died and she did so and the whole Earth paid the price. Without parents, she never met the Doctor and without Sarah Jane, the Doctor failed to save the Earth and it was enslaved by the Trickster. During an episode of Doctor Who, Turn Left, one of the Trickster's Brigade, a Time Beetle, latched onto Donna Noble and made her turn right instead of left. She never met the Doctor, the Doctor died and so did everyone else in the whole universe. Finally, the Trickster tricked Sarah Jane's fiancé into saving his own life and marrying Sarah Jane. Although he did love Sarah Jane, if Sarah Jane married him, she'd forget about the Earth and leave it wide open to attacks. With the help of the Doctor and the sacrifice of her fiancé, the Earth was once again safe.\n", "id": "223346", "title": "List of characters in The Sarah Jane Adventures"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223352", "text": "Acarina\n\nThe Acarina, or Acari, are the mites and ticks. They are an order of Arachnids.\n\nTheir fossil history goes back to the Devonian era. Most acarines are tiny: less than a millimetre. It is estimated that over 50,000 species have been described, but a million or more species may be currently living. The study of mites and ticks is called acarology.\n\nAcarines live in practically every habitat, and include aquatic (freshwater and sea water) and terrestrial species. They outnumber other arthropods in the soil and detritus. Many are parasitic, and they affect both vertebrates and invertebrates. Most parasitic forms are external parasites, while the free living forms are generally predators and may even be used to control undesirable arthropods. Others help to break down forest litter and dead organic matter such as skin cells. Others still are herbivorous and may damage crops. Damage to crops is perhaps the most costly economic effect of mites, especially by the spider mites and their relatives, earth mites, thread-footed mites and the gall and rust mites. \n\nSome parasitic forms affect humans and other mammals, causing damage by their feeding, and can even be vectors of diseases such as scrub typhus and rickettsia. A well-known effect of mites on humans is as an allergen which stimulates asthma. Predatory mites may be used in pest control and herbivorous mites used to attack weeds. A positive contribution of the Acari is their normal functioning in ecosystems, especially their roles in the decomposer subsystem.\n\nA hugely successful group with a large number of species. Mites are among the most diverse and successful of all the invertebrate groups, but because of their small size (most are microscopic) go largely unnoticed. They have exploited many habitats. Many live freely in the soil or water, but there are also a large number of species that live as parasites on plants, animals, and some that feed on mould (fungi).\n\nTicks are blood-sucking ectoparasites, mostly of mammals and birds. They wait on grass or bushes, and jump onto passing animals. A number of birds specialise in picking them off larger animals: the Cattle Egret and the Oxpecker for example. They are quite serious pests, and can be hard to get rid of. They are vectors, carrying diseases such as Lyme disease.\n\n", "id": "223352", "title": "Acarina"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223386", "text": "Ahab\n\nAhab or Ach'av or Achab in Douay-Rheims (; ; ) was King of Israel and the son of Omri. He is written about in the Books of Kings and the Books of Chronicles.\n\nAhab son of Omri did \"more evil in the eyes of the Lord than any of those before him\" (1 Kings 16:30), as it is written in the Bible. Many think - and say - that it is probably because of his evil wife, Queen Jezebel, daughter of Ethbaal king of the Sidonians. She was even more sinful than Ahab, and comes out in the Bible, commanding Ahab to do most of the things she wants. She serves the idol Baal and tries to make Ahab and all the Israelites worship it as well.\nOne of Ahab's most famous enemies is an old prophet (a man of God) named Elijah. He continually rebukes Ahab for being so disobeying to the Lord, and when Ahab summoned all the prophets of Baal against Elijah at Mount Carmel, and set two altars for them, Elijah won by calling on God and letting fire come and burn the sacrifice, and the prophets of Baal were immediately killed by the Israelites. Importantly, even here Ahab does nothing, either to stop or help Elijah.\n\nOnce, there was a quite well-known war between Ben-Hadad king of Aram and King Ahab. Ben-Hadad came and, \"with thirty-two kings with horses and chariots\" (1 Kings 20), he attacked Samaria. He said to King Ahab: \n\"Your silver and gold are mine, and the best of your wives and children are mine.\"\nThis King Ahab agreed with—but after that, Ben-Hadad sent another more demanding command: \"I sent to demand your silver and gold, your wives and children. But about this time tomorrow I am going to send my officials to search your palace and the houses of your officials. They will seize everything you value and carry it away.\"—and King Ahab grew annoyed. He rejected that command, and so Ben-Hadad decided to battle against Ahab. And after that the Lord sent a prophet and said, \"Do you see this vast army? I will give it into your hand today, and then you will know that I am the Lord.\"\nAnd he also added that the young officers of the commanders will do it, and that King Ahab would start the battle.\n\nEncouraged by this, Ahab took the young officers of the commanders, 232 men. Then he assembled the rest of the Israelites, 7,000 in all. They set out at noon while Ben-Hadad and the 32 kings with him were in their tents getting drunk, and defeated them all. \n\nLater at spring, as a prophet prophesied to Ahab, Ben-Hadad came again, with all his army. They came to the valleys, declaring triumphantly that God was a \"gods of hills\" and that was why the Israelites were strong; and now that they were in the valleys, they would surely win the battle. But God wanted to prove that he was the God of everything and not only of the hills, so he helped Ahab defeat them there, too. Ahab then spared Ben-Hadad's life. This caused God to get angry at Ahab and say through a prophet (1 Kings 20:42)--\"This is what the Lord says: 'You have set free a man that I had determined should die. Therefore it is your life for his life, your people for his people.'\" \n\nAhab also once did a great sin that the Lord was very angry at, and it included a vineyard of Naboh the Jezreelite.\nHe wanted a vineyard belonging to Naboth the Jezreelite, because it was in Jezreel and close to his palace. So Ahab said to Naboth (1 Kings 21:2), \"Let me have your vineyard to use for a vegetable garden, since it is close to my palace. In exchange I will give you a better vineyard or, if you prefer, I will pay you whatever it is worth.\"\nBut Naboth was unwilling because \"the Lord forbid\" that he should give Ahab \"the inheritance of his fathers\". So Ahab was very angry and sulky, and when he was at home he wouldn't eat, and pouted on his bed. Then Jezebel came over and asked (1 Kings 21:5), \"Why are you so sullen? Why won't you eat?\" And Ahab explained to her the situation. Jezebeel told him to get up, and said that she would get him the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. \n\nSo she wrote some letters in Ahab's name, placed his seal on them, and sent them to the elders and nobles who lived in Naboth's city. It said:(1 Kings 21:9-10) \"Proclaim a day of fasting and seat Naboth in a prominent place among the people. But seat two scoundrels opposite him and have them testify that he has cursed both God and the king. Then take him out and stone him to death.\" \n\nSo the elders and nobles did as she told him to, and Naboth died a bitter, meaningless death. \n\nThen Jezebel declared to Ahab that Naboth was \"no longer alive, but dead\" and Ahab got up and took possession of Nahab's vineyard. The Lord was very angry at Ahab for this, and said to Elijah the Tishbite, a prophet--(1 Kings 21:18)\"Go down to meet Ahab the king of Israel, who rules in Samaria. He is now in Naboth's vineyard, where he has gone to take possession of it. Say to him, \"This is what the Lord says: 'have you not murdered a man and seized his property?' Then say to him, 'This is what the Lord says, in the place where dogs licked up Naboth's blood, dogs will lick up your blood - yes, yours!'\"\nKing Ahab said to Elijah, when he met him (1 Kings 21:20), \"So you have found me, my enemy!\" \nElijah replied, \"I have found you, because you have sold yourself to do evil in the eyes of the Lord. 'I am going to bring disaster on you. I will consume your descendants and cut off from Ahab every last male in Israel - slave or free. I will make your house like that of Jeroboam son of Nebat and that of Baasha son of Ahijah, becauase you have provoked me to anger and have caused Israel to sin.' And also concerning Jezebel the Lord says: 'Dogs will devour Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel.' Dogs will eat those belonging to Ahab who die in the city, and the birds of the air will feed on those who die in the country.\" \nAt hearing this, Ahab grew afraid, and humbled himself by tearing his clothes, putting on sackcloth, and fasting. He 'lay in sackcloth and went around meekly.' The Lord felt compassionate, and said to Elijah, \"Have you noticed how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself, I will not bring this disaster in his day, but I will bring it on his house in the days of his son.\"\n\nAccording to the Bible, for three years there was no war between Aram and Israel. But in the third year, when Jehoshaphat king of Judah went down to see Ahab (who was now his father-in-law, since Jehoshaphat had married Athaliah, his daughter), Ahab said, \"Let's go retake Ramoth Gilead from the king of Aram! Will you go with me?\" Jehoshaphat replied, \"I am as you are, my people as your people, my horses as your horses.\" For this, he would later be rebuked by the prophet Jehu. But he added: \"First seek the counsel of the Lord.\"\n\nKing Ahab called together the prophets—\"about four hundred men\"—and asked them, \"Shall I go to attack Ramoth Gilead or not?\" And they said, \"Go.\" These prophets were not really prophets, but simply did their \"job\" by saying things that they thought would make the king happy - not what the Lord really said. King Jehoshaphat saw that the 400 prophets were not to be trusted, and asked to see a real prophet of the Lord, saying, \"Is there not a prophet of the Lord here...?\" King Ahab said that there was Micaiah son of Imlah, but \"...he never prophesies anything good about me, but always bad.\" Jehoshaphat wanted to see him, so Ahab called him. Meanwhile, Zedekiah son of Kenaanah, one of the 400 prophets, had made iron horns and he cried, \"This is what the Lord says: 'With these you will gore the Arameans until they are destroyed.'\" All the other prophets said the same thing. Even the messenger who had gone to call Micaiah said to him, \"Let your word agree with theirs...\"\n\nWhen Micaiah came, he said, \"Attack, and be victorious (win).\" But Ahab probably saw that Micaiah was not being serious, and he said, \"...tell me nothing but the truth...\" So Micaiah said that he saw the Lord sitting on his throne in heaven, and that the Lord had put a \"lying spirit\" in the mouths of all the prophets, because they did not love the truth and had chosen to speak out of their own hearts. At this, one of the prophets, Zedekiah son of Kenaanah was so enraged he went to Micaiah and slapped him in the face, saying sarcastically, \"Which way did the spirit from the Lord go when he went from me to speak (talk) to you?\" (1 Kings 22:24, NIV) Micaiah replied, \"You will find out...[when] you go to hide in an inner room.\" King Ahab put Micaiah and prison and went to battle in disguise, thinking that this way nobody would know who he was and so Micaiah's prophecy would not be fulfilled (come true). But one of the soldiers shot him by mistake, and he had a deep wound and died in his chariot, watching the battle sadly. As in the prophecy of Elijah, the dogs licked up his blood. After him, his sons succeeded as king, Ahaziah and Jehoram.\n\n", "id": "223386", "title": "Ahab"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223389", "text": "Eppertshausen\n\nEppertshausen is a municipality in the Darmstadt-Dieburg Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany.\n\nEppertshausen is located in the \"Rhine-Main area\" 15 km northeast of Darmstadt. The whole area of the village is 13.11 km large and it lies 130 – 190 m above sea level. It is a plain area with a few hills.\n\nAbout 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor.\n\nThe neighbours of Eppertshausen are: \n\nEppertshausen has 5,829 inhabitants (2008).\n\nThe climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.\n\nSome local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: \"Hessisch\") spoken in the south of Hesse. This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.\n\nEppertshausen is an early place where people lived. In the time of the 7th to the 9th century new places to live got name endings like \"-hausen\".\n\nIn 836 the name of Eppertshausen was written down in a document for the first time. It was owned by the monastery of the nearby city of Seligenstadt.\n\nFormerly the people in Eppertshausen were mostly farmers and craftsmen but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore, most families had only small farms and were poor. With the industrial revolution the Rhine-Main area got lots of factories and developed to a center for metal working, leather manufacturing and chemical processing. Many men became workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This increased living conditions partly.\n\n", "id": "223389", "title": "Eppertshausen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223430", "text": "Barack Obama\n\nBarack Hussein Obama II (; born August 4, 1961) is the 44th President of the United States and the first African-American to hold the office. He is a Democrat. Obama won the 2008 United States presidential election, on November 4, 2008. He was inaugurated on January 20, 2009.\n\nAs president, he slowly ended the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, with intention to prepare the countries so that they could defend themselves. He also signed the Affordable Care Act (often called \"Obamacare\") which changed many health care laws. He also enacted numerous acts to create public works jobs to help the economy. He became the first president to openly express support for gay marriage, proposed gun control as a result of the Sandy Hook school shooting and has called for improving relations with Cuba.\n\nObama was born on August 4, 1961 in Kapiʻolani Medical Center for Women and Children (called Kapiʻolani Maternity & Gynecological Hospital in 1961) in Honolulu, Hawaii and is the first President to have been born in Hawaii. His father was a black exchange student from Kenya named Barack Obama Sr. He died in a motorcycle accident in Kenya in 1982. His mother was a white woman from Kansas named Ann Dunham, who was an anthropologist and died from cancer. His mother married Barack Obama Sr. in 1961 and divorced him in 1964. His stepfather was from Indonesia named Lolo Soetoro after his mother married him in 1965. She divorced in 1980. He spent most of his childhood in Hawaii and Chicago, Illinois, although he lived in Indonesia with his mother and stepfather from age 6 to age 10. He moved back to Hawaii after that to live with his grandparents. \nHe started college at Occidental College in Los Angeles, and graduated from Columbia University in New York City. After taking time off to community organize, Obama went to law school at Harvard University. After law school, Obama worked for a law firm. The law firm sued companies who fired people, and sued the government claiming that some black people were prevented from voting. \n\nObama worked for Alice Palmer, an Illinois state senator. In 1995 she chose not to run for re-election so that she could run for U.S. Congress, and Obama decided to run for her Illinois state senate seat. Palmer lost her election for U.S. Congress, so she tried to keep her seat in the state senate, but she did not have enough time to meet the rules of the election. Obama's team said that she could not be on the ballot, and the election rulemakers agreed. Obama won the election and became an Illinois state senator. He was state senator from 1997 to 2004.\n\nWhile he was Illinois state senator, he wrote a law that required police to keep records on the race of people they stopped. The law that he wrote also forced police to videotape when they talked to people they suspect of murder. He taught law part-time at the University of Chicago Law School. Judge and political teacher Abner J. Mikva taught Obama politics and became his mentor.\n\nObama ran for the U.S. Senate. While running for Senate, John Kerry asked him to speak at the Democratic National Convention. He spoke on television. He was a U.S. Senator from 2005 to 2008.\n\nObama won the presidential election of 2008.\n\nBarack Obama's presidential campaign for the White House started in early June 2008 when he defeated Hillary Clinton in the 2008 Democratic primaries. Hillary Clinton was favored to win but Obama won many smaller state caucuses (local party elections) by having a lot of volunteers. He decided not to accept government money for his campaign so that he could accept more money from people. He raised the most amount of money ever for a presidential campaign. \n\nObama's campaign theme was that he was a man of hope and change. He was also against the war in Iraq. He was in favor of giving money to American car companies. He was in favor of sending more troops to Afghanistan.\n\nDuring the campaign, some people said that Obama's friends were Tony Rezko, a landlord, and former member of the Weather Underground Bill Ayers; Obama said that they were not his friends. Obama also had trouble when his minister at church, Jeremiah Wright, was videotaped criticizing America. During the campaign, Obama said that his opponent, Republican candidate John McCain, was just like George W. Bush, something that John McCain said was not true.\n\nHe defeated McCain in the election on November 4 by a wide electoral majority of 365 to 173, meaning that he won the most votes in enough states to send 365 people to officially elect him. The popular vote (based on the total number of votes across the country) was closer, with Obama winning 53%, McCain 46%.\n\nObama has been married to Michelle Obama since 1992. She has a Bachelor of Arts degree from Princeton University, and also a law degree from Harvard Law School. She worked as a lawyer.\nThey have two daughters, Malia Ann, who was born in 1998 and Natasha (\"Sasha\"), born in 2001. They lived in Chicago, but moved into the White House on January 20, 2009.\n\nObama promised his daughters that the family would get a dog if he was elected President. In April 2009, Senator Ted Kennedy,the brother of former President John F. Kennedy, gave Obama one of his dogs, a Portuguese water dog named Bo.\n\nObama has a half sister who is a teacher in Hawaii. His father died from a car accident in Africa. His mother died of cancer. His maternal grandmother died just before Obama won the election to become President.\n\nObama became President of the United States on January 20, 2009. The United States was battling a tough recession. He asked Congress to spend an extra $787 billion ($787,000,000,000) to try to end the recession. He called the plan the stimulus bill. The stimulus bill funded many road projects, gave money to schools, gave tax credits to many Americans, and funded many science and research projects.\n\nObama continued the financial bailout that George W. Bush started, giving billions of dollars to car companies and banks so that they would not go bankrupt. He signed an act written by Barney Frank and Chris Dodd which would regulate Wall Street (the financial industry) to try to prevent another recession like this from happening again. Obama signed the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act which would bring health care reform to the United States, which he said would change the system so that more people can afford health care.\n\nIn foreign policy, Obama made a plan to slowly withdraw troops from Iraq, ending the War in Iraq by the end of 2011, while adding more troops to Afghanistan to help the United States win the War in Afghanistan. He also decided that the USA should help in the war against Libya. He has said several times that he wants to improve U.S. relations with the Muslim world.\n\nObama received the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize on October 9, 2009. He noted that his efforts were humble, but he donated the prize money to several charities.\n\nAlthough his popularity was very high (around 70% approval) when he entered office, his approval ratings fell to 45% percent during the year of 2010. He has received a lot of criticism from Republicans, conservatives, libertarians, and members of the Tea Party because they believe that the federal government is becoming too big and spending too much money and that his programs are not the best for the country.\n\nWith rising deficits (the amount of money the government borrows each month) under his administration, he has called for taxes to be increased on the rich and wealthy Americans, who can afford to pay them. He has criticized his Republican opponents for wanting to cut welfare benefits for the poor and needy rather than raising taxes to help pay down the debt. He also signed the Don't Ask Don't Tell Repeal Act of 2010 in 2010 which since 1993 had prevented openly gay men and openly lesbian women from serving in the army. \n\nObama has started the ending of the Iraq War and continued the war on terror which resulted in the death of Osama bin Laden on May 2, 2011. Obama has started a no-fly-zone policy on Libya which ended the civil war in October 2011 with the killing of Muammar al-Gaddafi. On May 9, 2012, he became the first sitting US President to openly support legalizing same-sex marriage.\n\nOn December 14, 2012, after the school shooting in Newtown, Connecticut occurred, Obama had said, \"We're going to have to come together and take meaningful action to prevent more tragedies like this, regardless of the politics\". On December 21, 2012, Obama and his White House staff observed a moment of silence because of the school shooting in Connecticut.\n\nOn December 21, 2012, Obama nominated John Kerry for United States Secretary of State during his second term. Kerry was sworn in on February 1, 2013.\n\nBefore his second term began and still continues, there has been debating of guns because of the shooting in Newtown, Connecticut that happened on December 14, 2012, as well as shootings in the past.\n\nHe took his second term inauguration oath in the White House, privately (only his family members could see) on January 20, 2013. Obama was inaugurated for a second term on January 21, 2013 (January 20, 2013 fell on a Sunday) in the United States Capitol, that inauguration was viewed to the public.\n\nHe visited South Africa on late June 2013. Prior to visiting South Africa, he visited Senegal. He visited Robben Island, where Mandela was prisoned. He did not meet with Nelson Mandela.\n\nThe United States government shutdown occurred on October 1, 2013. On October 17, 2013, Obama signed a bill which ended the United States government shut down.\n\nObama awarded several people, including former U.S. President Bill Clinton and media mogul Oprah Winfrey for the Presidential Medal of Freedom on November 20, 2013. He has awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom to many people, such as Stephen Hawking, Sandra Day O'Connor, Chita Rivera, Loretta Lynn and George H. W. Bush.\nOn December 5, 2013, he gave a four and a half minute speech of Nelson Mandela after Mandela's death was announced. On December 9, 2013, he departed Washington, D.C. to go to South Africa for Mandela's memorial service. On December 10, 2013, Obama spoke at the memorial service of Nelson Mandela in Soweto, South Africa.\n\nOn April 4, 2011 Obama declared that he would stand for re-election for a second term in 2012 in a video titled \"It Begins with Us\" that he posted on his website and filed election papers with the Federal Election Commission. He was officially nominated for his party's Presidential choice on September 6, 2012. Mitt Romney was officially nominated as his opponent by the Republican party on August 30, 2012. While the election results were very close, Obama easily won the electoral college votes he needed to win a second term. Obama and Romney spent more than $2 billion on advertising during the election campaign.\n\nThe start of his second term in 2014, had a few setbacks. With the NSA, people were upset at the Obama Administration that the government was possibly listening to their phone calls. His party (the Democrats) also lost the Congressional elections. Because of disagreements between Democrats and Republicans in Congress, neither side is getting anything done and Obama has resulted in using his Executive Order (his power as president) to help reform things like the immigration system.\n\nHe's also supported increasing the minimum wage, requiring women to be paid the same as men at the same job and has called for the first 2 years of college to be fully government-funded for students who study full-time and get good grades.\n\nAfter the death of Supreme Court justice Antonin Scalia, Obama nominated Merrick Garland to replace him on March 16, 2016, but the nomination expired because the senate refused to hold a vote for him.\n\n", "id": "223430", "title": "Barack Obama"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223461", "text": "Craig Brown (footballer born 1940)\n\nCraig Brown CBE (born 1 July 1940 in Hamilton, South Lanarkshire) is a Scottish former professional football player and manager. He is currently the manager of Scottish Premier League club Aberdeen after he left Motherwell in December 2010.\n", "id": "223461", "title": "Craig Brown (footballer born 1940)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223464", "text": "Scott Brown (Scottish footballer)\n\nScott Brown (born 25 June 1985 in Dunfermline, Fife) is a Scottish association football player, currently playing for Scottish Premier League club Celtic. Brown, who started his professional career with Hibernian, is a regular in the Scottish national team. His transfer to Celtic from Hibs in the summer of 2007 broke the record for the biggest transfer fee paid between two Scottish clubs.\n", "id": "223464", "title": "Scott Brown (Scottish footballer)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223505", "text": "Seven-arm octopus\n\nThe seven-arm octopus (\"Haliphron atlanticus\") is claimed to be the largest octopus. The claim is based on a partial specimen, and the estimation is of a 4 metre length and a weight of 75 kg. The North Pacific giant octopus is its rival in size.\n\nIn 2002, a single specimen of giant proportions was caught by fisheries trawling off the eastern Chatham Rise, New Zealand. This specimen, the largest of this species and of all octopuses, was the first validated record of Haliphron from the South Pacific. It had a mantle length of 0.69 m, total length of 2.90 m, and weight of 61.0 kg, although it was incomplete.\n\nThe seven-arm octopus gets its name because the male's hectocotylus (a specially modified arm used in egg fertilization) is coiled in a sac beneath the right eye. \n", "id": "223505", "title": "Seven-arm octopus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223510", "text": "Hierarchical database model\n\nIn a Hierarchical database model is a data model where the data is organised like a tree. The structure allows repeating information using parent/child relationships: each parent can have many children but each child only has one parent. All attributes of a specific record are listed under an entity type.\n\nIn a database, an entity type is the equivalent of a table; each individual record is represented as a row and an attribute as a column. Entity types are related to each other using \"1: N\" mapping, also known as one-to-many relationships. \n\nThe most recognized and used hierarchical databases are IMS developed by IBM and Windows Registry by Microsoft.\n", "id": "223510", "title": "Hierarchical database model"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223512", "text": "Network model (database)\n\nDatabase systems use a network model to store their data in a graph. Much like the Hierarchical database model, the nodes of the graph contain information. The information is stored in a graph, so one parent can have many children, and one child can relate to several parents. The model is also known as CODASYL model, because it was originally proposed by the CODASYL consortium (who also developed COBOL).\n\nIn a network model, the defining feature is that each record has a link to another record.\n", "id": "223512", "title": "Network model (database)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223525", "text": "Saint Valentine\n\nSaint Valentine is the name of many martyred saints that lived in Ancient Rome. At least three different people named Valentine are said to have died on the 14th of February. Even though nobody knows who exactly Valentine was and where he came from, it has been confirmed that he existed because archaeologists discovered a church dedicated to Valentine.\n\nIn the Catholic church, Valentine was the patron of love, young people, and happy marriages.\n\nThere are many guesses about how Valentine's Day, a celebration of love, started. One legend says that Valentine, being a priest, performed secret wedding ceremonies when they were outlawed by Emperor Claudius II. When someone discovered that Valentine was breaking the law, he was ordered to be executed.\n\nAnother theory is that Valentine helped captive Christians to break out of prison. When he himself was in prison, Valentine may have sent the first love letter to a young girl who liked to visit him.\n", "id": "223525", "title": "Saint Valentine"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223532", "text": "Seligenstadt\n\nSeligenstadt is a town in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany. The town is by the river \"Main\".\n\nSeligenstadt is in the \"Rhine Main area\". The town is about 30 km southeast of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 30,85 km large and it is 109–118 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.\n\nAbout 35 to 20 million years ago in the Age of Tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor.\n\nThe city consists out of the town \"Seligenstadt\" and the 2 former independent villages \"Froschhausen\" and \"Klein-Welzheim\", both now urban districts of Seligenstadt. On 1 January 1977 they were united.\n\nThe neighbours of Seligenstadt are: \n\nSeligenstadt has 20,221 inhabitants (2008). The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.\n\nSome local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: \"Hessisch\"). This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them do not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.\n\nAround the year 100 the Romans had fights with the germanic peoples. They built a small castle and some houses in the place. Later people came here to build a village named \"Ober-Mulinheim\", later changed to \"Obermühlheim\". The name parts \"Mulin-\" and \"Mühl-\" are meaning \"mill\".\n\nIn 815 the name \"Obermühlheim\" was written down in a document for the first time. Around 830 the owner of the town started to build a great church, the \"Einhard-Basilika\", and a monastery. In this time also the name was changed from \"Obermühlheim\" to \"Seligenstadt\", because people brought some holy bones to the town.\n\nThe name Seligenstadt means \"place of happiness\". There is a story about the name. The emperor Charlemagne had lost his daughter and he found her in the village \"Mulinheim\". Therefore, the name of the place was changed into \"Seligenstadt\".\nIn the 12th century Seligenstadt got the town privileges.\n\nIn former times the people in the Seligenstadt area were mostly farmers, craftsmen and tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore, most families had only small farms and were poor.\n\nIn the time period of the industrial revolution the Rhine Main area got many factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical engineering. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This made living conditions partly better.\n\n\n", "id": "223532", "title": "Seligenstadt"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223545", "text": "Ahaziah of Israel\n\nAhaziah or Ochozias (אחזיהו המלך) (Israel, ca. 870 BC – ca. 850 BC) was king of Israel and the son of Ahab and Jezebel. In the Bible, it says that he is very bad, and that he walked in the ways of his evil father King Ahab.\n\nAhaziah son of Ahab was king of Israel in Samaria in the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and he reigned over Israel two years. He \"did evil in the eyes of the LORD, because he walked in the ways of his father and mother and in the ways of Jeroboam son of Nebat, who caused Israel to sin. He served and worshiped Baal and provoked the LORD, the God of Israel to anger, just as his father had done\" (1 Kings 22:51 - 53).\n\nAfter Ahab's death, Moab rebelled from Israel, and Ahaziah had fallen through the lattice of his upper room in Samaria and injured himself. So he sent messengers, saying to them, \"Go and consult Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron, to see if I will recover from this injury.\" \nBut God was angry at this, because Ahaziah did not consult him, but only a god of Ekron, so on the way, Elijah went and met the servants, and told them (2 Kings 1:6) as the Lord had instructed him, \"Go back to the king who sent you and tell him, 'This is what the Lord says:Is it because there was no God in Israel that you are sending men to consult Baal-Zebub, the god of Ekron? Therefore (Because of this) you will not leave the bed you are lying on. You will certainly (surely) die!'\" And the messengers did has he was told. At King Ahaziah's questions, they described Elijah as \"a man with a garment of hair and with a leather belt around his waist\". King Ahaziah recognized him at once, and sent a captain with fifty men to call Elijah.\nNow Elijah was sitting on a hill, and the captain called out, \"Man of God, the king says, 'Come down!'\" but Elijah replied, \"If I am a man of God, may fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men!\" he did like this the second time, too. Finally, the king sent a third captain with his fifty men, who \"...fell on his knees before Elijah...\" and bowed before him, humbly asking him to come. Elijah was told by the angel of the Lord to go down, so he went down and told the king again, \"You will certainly die!\" \"So he died, according to the word of the Lord that Elijah had spoken\". (2 Kings 1:17, NIV) \nAnd, according to the Bible, Ahaziah fulfilled the prophecy by dying. Because Ahaziah had no son, Joram became king.\n\n\n", "id": "223545", "title": "Ahaziah of Israel"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223568", "text": "Teignmouth\n\nTeignmouth (, ) is a town in Devon, South West England. It is built on the north bank of the mouth of the River Teign. In 1690, it was the last place in England to be invaded by a foreign power. The town was once a fishing port. Fishermen used to fish for cod in Newfoundland. In the Georgian period, it became a popular place to stay. The town grew more with the opening of the South Devon Railway in 1846. Today, its port is still working and the town remains a popular seaside holiday location.\n\nTeignmouth is twinned with:\n", "id": "223568", "title": "Teignmouth"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223575", "text": "Utility\n\n\"Not to be confused with Public utility\"\n\nIn economics, utility is the amount of satisfaction you get from consuming (using) goods and products. Changes in utility are called \"utils\", even though there is not really a standard scale for them. For example, a cup of hot chocolate can have 100 utils, and a cup of orange juice 80 utils. One of the most well-known uses of utility, especially in economics, is the utility of money.\n", "id": "223575", "title": "Utility"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223576", "text": "Nescafé\n\nNescafé is a brand of instant coffee made by Nestlé. Instant coffee is a powder which is mixed with hot water to make coffee. There are several different products that have the name Nescafé. The name is a mix of the words \"\"Nestlé\"\" and \"\"café\"\". Nestlé's instant coffee product was introduced in Switzerland on April 1, 1938 after being developed for seven years by Max Morgenthaler and Vernon Chapman.\n", "id": "223576", "title": "Nescafé"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223578", "text": "Oxfam\n\nOxfam International is a group of 14 organisations working with over 3,000 partners in around 100 countries to find lasting solutions to poverty and injustice. It brings these problems to public attention, sets programs to make changes, and provides help in major disasters, also promotes sustainable development and fair trade.\n\nOxfam began in Oxford in 1942 as the Oxford Committee for Famine Relief. It was started by a group of Quakers (which included Marcus Tite), social activists, and Oxford academics. This is now Oxfam Great Britain, still based in Oxford, UK. It was one of several local committees formed to support the National Famine Relief Committee. Their job was to get the British government to allow food through the Allied blockade for the starving people of Axis occupied Greece. \n\nThe first overseas Oxfam began in Canada in 1963. The committee changed its name to its telegraph address, OXFAM, in 1965.\n", "id": "223578", "title": "Oxfam"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223586", "text": "Mushroom Records\n\nMushroom Records is an Australian record company started by Michael Gudinski and Ray Evans in Melbourne in 1972. After its sale in 1998, it joined with Festival Records (Australia) and became Festival Mushroom Records. In 2006 it became one of the record labels owned by Warner Bros. Records. It is currently internationally known as WEA International Inc.\n", "id": "223586", "title": "Mushroom Records"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223589", "text": "The Resistance\n\nThe Resistance is the fifth album by Muse, a British rock band.\n\n", "id": "223589", "title": "The Resistance"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223595", "text": "Jinan\n\nJinan (Chinese: 济南/濟南) is a city in eastern China and the capital of China's Shandong province. Jinan's most famous attraction is the Baotu Spring. Li Qingzhao(李清照, 1084 - 1151 A.D) was born in Jinan and is a famous poet in China.\nJinan Municipality is divided into 6 district and 3 counties.\n\n", "id": "223595", "title": "Jinan"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223597", "text": "Cao Xueqin\n\nCao Xueqin (, 1724 or 1715 — 1763 or 1764), was a Chinese writer during the Qing Dynasty. The most famous work by Cao Xueqin is the \"Dream of the Red Chamber\", which is thought to be a great novel in Chinese literature. There are very little details known about his life. He came from a rich family that had lost its money in 1728 after the death of the Kangxi Emperor. He lived in the country west of Peking where he worked as a teacher and sold his paintings. He spent ten years writing the book, but a large part of the end of the book was written by a different writer after he died.\n", "id": "223597", "title": "Cao Xueqin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223601", "text": "Tianjin\n\nTianjin(Chinese: 天津)，is a city in Northern China. It has a population of 11,760,000. It has an area of 11,917.3 square kilometers. Built in 1403, Tianjin has been named by Yongle Emperor in memory of his success in occupying Ming capital Beijing through the harbor of Tianjin. It locates on the banks of the Hai River, west of Bohai Sea, south of Yanshan Mountains, east of Beijing. The distance between Tianjin and Beijing is 137 kilometers and it’ll take you only half an hour to go from Tianjin to Beijing by the Beijing–Tianjin Intercity Railway.\n\nTianjin is the birthplace of China’s modern mechanical industry and textile industry. Since the beginning of the Open Door Policy, Tianjin has been built more than a dozen industrial zones, creating a lot Chinese famous brand like Flying Pigeon bicycles, Seagull brand watches. Now Tianjin gradually forms 6 industries of electronic information, automobile, metallurgical, chemical, biotechnology and modern medicine, new energy and environmental protection. Among Fortune 500 companies, more than 106 have invested in Tianjin. From 1994 to 2008, Tianjin's GDP rate increased 12.5% on average, entered the ranks of China's rapid development area.\n\nTianjin is the birthplace of the first university in China. In 1895, some officials established the first modern university in China – Peiyang University, the predecessor of Tianjin University. Nankai University in Tianjin is a famous university in China. The first Premier of the People's Republic of China Zhou Enlai graduates from Nankai University. Tianjin has 37 universities and has nearly 20 million students. Tianjin is one of the first nine-year compulsory education regions. The quality of workers is high. Tianjin has nearly one thousand scientific and technological research institutions, together with more than 600 thousand professionals in different fields. It has a large number of famous experts and scholars.\n\nTianjin is not far away from sea, so a lot of Tianjin cuisine is seafood. One of the most famous cuisine in Tianjin is The Four Great Stews, which refers actually to a very large number of stews, including chicken, duck, seafood, beef, and mutton. Tianjin also has several famous snack items. Goubuli is a traditional brand of Baozi (steamed buns with filling) that is famous throughout China. Guifaxiang is a traditional brand of mahua(twisted dough sticks). Erduoyan is a traditional brand of fried rice cakes.\n", "id": "223601", "title": "Tianjin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223604", "text": "Shenzhen\n\nShenzhen () is a city in Guangdong province, China. It is just north of Hong Kong. It has a subtropical climate.\n\nUntil recently, Shenzhen was a fishing village with just over 30,000 people. In 1980, under the leadership of Deng Xiaoping, Shenzhen became one of China's Special Economic Zones (SEZ). It was in this city where China first experimented with capitalism. Since then, its population has grown to about 10.6 million people. \n\nShenzhen is a progressive city. It has a strong economic connection with Hong Kong. It is also one of the main trading centers of the Pearl River Delta. The manufacturing company Gionee is located in the city.\n\n", "id": "223604", "title": "Shenzhen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223606", "text": "Piracy in the Caribbean\n\n\"For the movie, see Pirates of the Caribbean.\"\n\nPiracy in the Caribbean was the terror of the Caribbean Sea, especially to the Spanish navy that controlled those seas. The English had defeated the Spanish Armada in 1588, which stopped the Spanish control of the oceans. However, the Spanish still controlled the Caribbean. \n\nIn the 1770s, the English used pirates to help their government. By doing harm to the Spanish navy and export, the English hoped to get more land in the New World and stop the Spanish from controlling the New World trade. They did get what they wanted, but made a new problem.\nSir Henry Morgan was one well-known pirate who was encouraged by the English government. He worked for the government, but he kept the money. As time went on, though, Morgan stopped working for the government and began working to get money only for himself. He and other pirates soon began attacking any trading ship, even if it was English.\n\nMorgan and his helpers called themselves the Brethren. They wore rough shirts, knee-long pants, felt hats, and leather belts. On their belts, they hung gunpowder , butcher's knives, and blunderbusses (short muskets.) They had a \"pirate code\" which said each man had the right to vote on all things, like choosing a captain or the next ship to attack.\n\nThe pirates easily found new members. Seamen in naval services often lived much harder lives than pirates. They could be punished cruelly by people higher than them, did not have good food to eat, and were paid only a little money. The pirates offered equality, good food (when it was there), and a chance to become rich.\n\nHowever, pirates were little better. The commanders of trading ships were terrified at seeing pirate ships, because pirates had little mercy on the people they captured. They shot them, beat them to death, tortured them, or them on desert islands. Pirates were not very kind to each other, either. Even though they had a \"pirate law\", they argued with each other, and members could receive the same punishment as their enemies.\n\nLife on a pirate ship was very hard. There was never a dry place to sleep; bathing was very rare; food was often bad; and danger was expected. Many pirates had missing arms or legs after bloody sea battles. Even pirates who finally became rich still risked being hanged if they were caught.\n\n", "id": "223606", "title": "Piracy in the Caribbean"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223608", "text": "Zhejiang\n\nZhejiang is a province in east China. \"Zhejiang\" is named by the Qiantang River, which is also called \"Zhejiang\". \"Zhejiang\" means \"bent river\". It has a population of more than 51 million people. The capital of Zhejiang Province is Hangzhou.\n\nZhejiang Province is divided into eleven municipalities (Chinese:地级市).\n", "id": "223608", "title": "Zhejiang"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223614", "text": "Shaoxing\n\nShaoxing () is a city and a municipality in China. It is in the Zhejiang province. 4,347,200 people live there, 649 thousand of whom lives in the city of Shaoxing. The area of Shaoxing Municipality is 8,256 square kilometres. Lu Xun () born in Shaoxing is a famous writer in China.\n\nShaoxing Municipality is divided into 1 district, 3 cities and 2 counties.\n\n\n", "id": "223614", "title": "Shaoxing"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223616", "text": "Lu Xun\n\nLu Xun (), (September 25, 1881 – October 19, 1936), was a Chinese writer. His real name is Zhou Shuren (周树人), as Lu Xun is his pen name. He was born in Shaoxing of Zhejiang Province. He had a lot of works, for example, \"The True Story of Ah Q\", \" Medicine\", and so on.\n", "id": "223616", "title": "Lu Xun"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223625", "text": "U.S. Open (golf)\n\nThe U.S. Open is a golf tournament, which is one of the four major championships played annually. It is organized by the United States Golf Association. The torunament takes place annually on the third weekend in June, and the host course changes every year.\n", "id": "223625", "title": "U.S. Open (golf)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223626", "text": "Black Holes and Revelations\n\nBlack Holes and Revelations is the fourth album from the British alternative rock band, Muse. It was released in 2006.\n\n", "id": "223626", "title": "Black Holes and Revelations"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223627", "text": "United National Independence Party\n\nThe United National Independence Party (UNIP) is a political party in Zambia. It governed the country from 1964 to 1991. This was under President Kenneth Kaunda. It was the only party allowed to exist in Zambia between 1973 and 1991. The party was founded in October 1959 after the Zambian African National Congress (ZANC) was banned. It was first led by Mainza Chona, because Kaunda, who was leader of the ZANC, had been imprisoned. Kaunda became the party's leader when he was released in January 1960.\n", "id": "223627", "title": "United National Independence Party"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223634", "text": "UE Sant Andreu\n\nUnió Esportiva Sant Andreu (UE Sant Andreu) is a Spanish football team formed in 1909 and based in the district of Sant Andreu, in the city of Barcelona. They will play the 2008-09 season in the Segunda División B - Group 3. \n\n", "id": "223634", "title": "UE Sant Andreu"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223647", "text": "Cerapod\n\nThe Cerapods are a sub-order of the Ornithischia. They are all herbivorous dinosaurs. They have thicker enamel on the inside of their lower teeth. The teeth wear unevenly, and this allows them to browse on tough vegetation.\n\nThey are divided into three groups:\n", "id": "223647", "title": "Cerapod"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223649", "text": "Ceratopsia\n\nThe Ceratopsia are the horned dinosaurs of the order Ornithischia. \"Triceratops\" is the best-known, and one of the largest. They are a group of herbivorous, beaked dinosaurs which thrived in what is now North America and Asia, during the Cretaceous period.\n\nAncestral forms of this group lived earlier, in the Jurassic. Early members, such as \"Psittacosaurus\", were small and bipedal. \n\nLater members, including \"Centrosaurus\" and \"Triceratops\", became very large quadrupeds. They developed elaborate facial horns and a neck frill. The frill served mainly to protect the vulnerable neck from bipedal predators like Tyrannosaurus, who attacked from above. \n\nThe frill was no doubt also used in display, thermoregulation, the attachment of large neck and chewing muscles or some combination of the above. \n\nCeratopsians ranged in size from 1 meter (3 ft) and 23 kilograms (50 lb) to over 9 meters (30 ft) and 5,400 kg (12,000 lb).\n\n\"Triceratops\" is by far the best-known ceratopsian to the general public.\n", "id": "223649", "title": "Ceratopsia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223651", "text": "Pachycephalosaur\n\nThe Pachycephalosaurs are a group of ornithopod dinosaurs in the suborder Cerapoda. Their thick round skulls were used for defence and, probably, for mating contests.\n\nIn some species, the skull roof is domed and several inches thick; in others it is flat or wedge-shaped.The flat-headed pachycephalosaurs are usually regarded as distinct species or even families, but they may be juveniles of dome-headed adults. The domes were often surrounded by nodes and/or spikes.\n\nThere is evidence of head-butting in pachycephalosaurs. Of 100 domes studied, 20 percent showed signs of healed injuries, all consistent with combative behavior. The pathologies included pitting where the bone had become infected from wounds that originated in the skin. These findings suggest that pachycephalosaurids may have been using their heads for both display and defence as many modern animals do.\n\n\n", "id": "223651", "title": "Pachycephalosaur"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223653", "text": "Obertshausen\n\nObertshausen is a city in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany.\n\nObertshausen is in the \"Rhine Main area\". The town is about 15 km southeast of Frankfurt. The whole area of the town is 13.62 km large and it is 113 m above sea level. It is a plain area with no hills.\n\nAbout 35 to 20 million years ago in the Age of Tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor.\n\nThe city consists out of the two former independent villages \"Obertshausen\" and \"Hausen\", which are now the two urban districts of Obertshausen. On 1 January 1977 they were united.\n\nThe neighbours of Obertshausen are: \n\nObertshausen has 24,141 inhabitants (2008). The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.\n\nSome local people are speaking a regional type (dialect) of the German language with a certain tone and special words. It is a Hessian dialect (German: \"Hessisch\"). This language type is related to other dialects in the south of Germany. In former times mostly every place had its own special dialect, sometimes hard to understand for people of other parts of Germany. Today the dialect speakers are a minority and the majority of them does not speak the real dialect. They rather speak a kind of regular German with a certain pronunciation.\n\nIn the year 865 the name of the village \"Obertshausen\" was written down in a document for the first time. It was a kind of farm of the monastery of Seligenstadt to produce food for the monks.\n\nIn 1979 the city got the town privileges.\n\nIn former times the people in the Obertshausen area were mostly farmers, craftsmen, but not tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed to the next generation it was divided within the children. Therefore most families had only small farms and were poor.\n\nIn the time period of the industrial revolution the Rhine Main area got many factories and developed to a center for metal working and leather manufacturing, also chemical engineering. Many men got workmen and found a job in the factories and earned money. This made living conditions partly better.\n\n", "id": "223653", "title": "Obertshausen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223654", "text": "Ankylosauria\n\nAnkylosaurs were armoured dinosaurs of the suborder Thyreophora. They include two distinct groups:\n", "id": "223654", "title": "Ankylosauria"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223656", "text": "Stegosauria\n\nThe Stegosaurs were a group of dinosaurs in the suborder Thyreophora. They have small heads, peg-like teeth and vertical bony plates and spines on their back and tail. They flourished from the Upper Jurassic to the Lower Cretaceous. \n\nThe Stegosauria was originally named as an order by O.C. Marsh in 1877. Now it is treated as an infraorder or suborder (or simply a clade) within Thyreophora, the armoured dinosaurs. It includes the families Huayangosauridae and Stegosauridae.\n\nThe Huayangosauridae were an early family of stegosaurs which lived during the Middle Jurassic. They were smaller than later stegosaurs and had shorter and higher skulls. Currently, the only confirmed genus included is the type genus \"Huayangosaurus\" of China. The poorly-known remains of \"Regnosaurus\" from England, however, indicate it too could be a member. Its lower jaw is very similar to the former. \n\nThe vast majority of stegosaurs being to the Stegosauridae, found in the later part of the Jurassic and the early Cretaceous. It includes the well-known \"Stegosaurus\". The family is widespread, with members across the Northern Hemisphere and Africa.\n\nSuborder Thyreophora\n\nInfraorder Stegosauria\n\n", "id": "223656", "title": "Stegosauria"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223665", "text": "Hainburg\n\nHainburg is a village in the Offenbach Rural District in the state of Hesse, Germany.\n\nHainburg is in the \"Rhine Main area\". The village is about 20 km southeast of Frankfurt. The municipality is 15.95 km large and it is 90 m above sea level. It is a flat area with no hills.\n\nAbout 20 to 35 million years ago in the Age of Tertiary the whole region was below sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediment sank to the bottom. Then the region rose again and the water receded, leaving soil which is mostly sandy.\n\nThe village consists out of the two former independent villages \"Hainstadt\" and \"Klein-Krotzenburg\", which are now the two districts of Hainburg. On 1 January 1977 they were united.\n\nHainburg's neighbors are: \n\nHainburg has 14,528 inhabitants (2008). The climate of the town is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.\n\nSome local people speak a regional German dialect language with a certain intonation and some different words (slang). It is a Hessian dialect (German: \"Hessisch\"). This type of dialect is related to other dialects in southern Germany. A long time ago, almost every town had its own special dialect, making it hard to understand for people from other parts of Germany. Today people who speak this dialect are in the minority and the majority of them do not speak the real dialect. They speak regular German with a special pronunciation of certain words.\n\nIn the 12th century the names of both villages \"Hainstadt\" and \"Crutzenburch\" (\"Krotzenburg\") were written down in documents for the first time.\n\nIn those times the most people in the Hainburg area were farmers and craftsmen, rather than tradesmen. Every family had land to grow their food. When the property was handed down to the next generation, it was divided among the children. Therefore, most families had only small farms and were poor.\n\nDuring the industrial revolution many factories were built in the Rhine Main area and it soon developed into a center for the metal business and leather manufacturing, as well as chemical engineering. Many men learned these trades and found jobs in the factories to earn money. This helped improve living conditions somewhat.\n\n\n", "id": "223665", "title": "Hainburg"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223703", "text": "Offenbach Rural District\n\nOffenbach Rural District is a rural district () in the south of Hesse, Germany. It is a part of the Darmstadt Government Region ().\n\nThe Offenbach Rural District is in the middle of the \"Rhine Main area\" in the south of the state of Hesse. The district is in the metropolitan area of Frankfurt. In the east it touches the state of Bavaria.\n\nThe whole area of the district is 356.29 km large and it is about 100 – 150 m above sea level. It is a mostly plain area with only a few hills. The district is southwest of the river \"Main\". The municipalities \"Mainhausen\" and \"Hainburg\" and the cities \"Seligenstadt\" and \"Mühlheim\" are near the river.\n\nThere are two creeks, the Rodau and the Bieber running from south to north through the district. They are flowing to the river \"Main\".\n\nAbout 35 to 20 million years ago in the age of tertiary the whole region was lying under sea level. At that time it was covered by an ocean which was warm and not very deep. Lots of sediments sank to its bottom. Then the region rose again and the water left, leaving soil which is mostly sandy and poor.\n\nThe district has 336,818 inhabitants (2008). The climate of the area is mild. There is less rain than in other parts of Germany.\n\nSince 1977 the \"Offenbach Rural District\" has 10 cities and 3 independent villages. In the year 2002 \"Dietzenbach\" became the capital of the district. The city of Offenbach is not a part of the district.\n\nThe neighbouring cities and rural districts of the Offenbach Rural District are the following:\n\n\nIn the year 1832 the Offenbach Rural District was founded. The capital was Offenbach. In 1938 the city of Offenbach became an independent urban district, but the rural district administration still was in Offenbach. In 2002 the capital changed and now \"Dietzenbach\" is the new capital of the Offenbach Rural District.\n\n", "id": "223703", "title": "Offenbach Rural District"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223710", "text": "American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009\n\nThe American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, most commonly referred to as the stimulus bill or stimulus package, was a spending bill passed by the U.S. Congress in 2009. It was one of the early things Barack Obama did as president. Despite Obama trying to get Republicans as well as Democrats to vote for the bill, only three did. The bill did several things:\n\n\nIt has taken awhile for the stimulus money to be used. Vice-President Joe Biden is one of the people in charge of making sure the money is used right.\n", "id": "223710", "title": "American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223713", "text": "Offenbach (disambiguation)\n\nOffenbach may mean:\n\n", "id": "223713", "title": "Offenbach (disambiguation)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223716", "text": "Truthout\n\nTruthout is a political website aimed at providing another choice to mainstream news sources. It was started after the 2000 presidential election with the idea of, in its own words, \"hoping to reach a few people, have some small impact on the dialogue, and maybe try to restore a little integrity.\" \n\nSome of its authors include William Rivers Pitt, Jason Leopold, Scott Galindez, David Bacon, Dean Baker, Tom Engelhardt, William Fisher, Dahr Jamail, Ray McGovern, J. Sri Raman, Norman Solomon, David Swanson and James Zogby. The website has reported a lot on the anti-war movement and helped to make Cindy Sheehan better known by using many of her writings. Attention is also given to problems including the environment, work (and work ethic), women, health, and voter rights. Its articles are now carried by press release information centers like World News, Scoop Newzealand and California News. \n\nTruthout is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization (a charity). In 2012, the company took in over $1,900,000.\n\nThe website also had a blog where visitors can talk about various issues or specific articles, which was taken down a short time ago.\n\n", "id": "223716", "title": "Truthout"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223727", "text": "7 Seconds\n\n7 Seconds is a hardcore punk band from Reno, Nevada. The band formed in 1979 as a hardcore thrash band.\n\nThe original members of the band were vocalist Kevin Seconds, bassist Steve Youth, drummer Troy Mowat and guitarist Bobby Adams. Seconds and Youth did most of the song-writing.\n\nBetween 1982 and 1987, the band released four EPs and three LPs. In 1988, they released \"Ourselves\" on the indie label Restless Records.\n\nAdams left the band in 1987. In 1990, the band took 3 years off from touring and recording music. Adams rejoined the band when they reformed in 1993. They recorded a new album in 1993 which was called \"Out the Shizzy\".\n\nThey are sometimes classified as a straight edge band but the members refuse to embrace the label.\n", "id": "223727", "title": "7 Seconds"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223731", "text": "Absolution (album)\n\nAbsolution is the third album by British alternative rock band Muse.\n\n", "id": "223731", "title": "Absolution (album)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223733", "text": "Origin of Symmetry\n\nOrigin of Symmetry is the second album by British alternative rock band Muse.\n\n", "id": "223733", "title": "Origin of Symmetry"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223736", "text": "Showbiz\n\nShowbiz is the first album by the British alternative rock band Muse.\n\n", "id": "223736", "title": "Showbiz"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223753", "text": "Phoenix (band)\n\nPhoenix is a French alternative rock band that was Grammy awarded. It consists of Thomas Mars (vocals), Deck D'Arcy (bass) and Laurent Brancowitz and Christian Mazzalai who play guitar. They are related to Air and Daft Punk.\n\n", "id": "223753", "title": "Phoenix (band)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223761", "text": "Leap of faith\n\nA Leap of faith commonly refers to believing something that cannot be touched or proved by science, for which there is no evidence. Usually the term is attributed to Søren Kierkegaard, even though he never really used it. According to Kierkegaard, such a leap involves circular reasoning, because a leap is made by faith.\n\nA leap of faith is commonly associated with religious belief because many religions consider faith to be an essential element of piety.\n", "id": "223761", "title": "Leap of faith"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223773", "text": "Capoeira\n\nCapoeira is a combination of martial arts, sport and popular culture that developed in Brazil, by African slaves and Brazilian natives, starting in the 16th century. It was made to give slaves a chance to escape and to survive. Capoeira was illegal in Brazil until the 1930s.\n\nCapoeira uses strong and fast kicks, dodges and fast counter-attacks. It also uses acrobatics and simple take-downs.\n\nCapoeira's history probably begins with the beginning of African slavery in Brazil. When Portuguese colonists began exporting West African slaves, Brazil, with its vast territory, received most of the slaves; almost 40% of all slaves sent across the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nAlthough rebellions were rare, capoeira was invented as a hope of survival for slaves. If they managed to escape, as after an escape attempt, colonial agents were sent after the escapees. The martial arts were incorporated into a dance, to escape detection–with music and rhythmic moves, no suspicion could be raised regarding potential martial art training. Due to city growth, more slaves were brought to cities and so made capoeira more prominent and allowed it to be taught and practiced among more people. In Rio, the colonial government tried to suppress it and established severe physical punishments for its practice.\n\nAfter slavery was abolished in 1888, free former slaves had nowhere to live and no jobs. They were thought of by the public as lazy workers. Capoeira then found a new role—as a dance of criminals.\nThey used capoeiristas (capoeira dancers) as bodyguards and hitmen. In 1890, the Brazilian government prohibited capoeira when police identified it as an advantage in fighting and they didn’t want criminals to have this advantage. After the ban, anybody caught practising capoeira for any reason would be arrested and tortured by the police. Some practises still occurred in remote places with guards to warn of police.\n\nBy the 1920s, repression of capoeira had declined. Mestre Bimba from Salvador, a strong fighter in both legal and illegal fights, thought capoeira was losing its martial roots due to the use of its playful side to entertain tourists. Bimba began developing the first systematic training method for capoeira, and in 1932 founded the first capoeira school. He called it Luta Regional Baiana because it was illegal to use capoeira in the name. By 1940, capoeira was legalized.\n\nToday, capoeira is viewed as one of the symbols of Brazilian culture all around the world and in 1970 it was taught outside of Brazil for the first time. Capoeira presentations, normally theatrical and with little martiality, are common sights around the world.\nThe martial arts part, however, is still present and still disguised, just as it was in the time of slavery, and trickery is still present and expert dancers used. An attack can be disguised even as a friendly gesture, such is the expertise gone into the research of new moves. Capoeira is now a symbol of Brazilian culture, its ethnic amalgam, and of resistance to oppression.\n", "id": "223773", "title": "Capoeira"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223774", "text": "Vaishnavism\n\nVaishnavism () is a tradition of Hinduism. Its followers worship Vishnu or its avatars, mainly Rama and Krishna as the highest, or original God. This worship in different perspectives or historical traditions addresses God under the names of Narayana, Krishna, Vāsudeva or more often \"Vishnu\", and their associated avatars. Its beliefs and practices, especially the concepts of Bhakti and Bhakti Yoga, are based largely on the Upanishads, and associated with the Vedas and Puranic texts such as the Bhagavad Gita, and the Padma, Vishnu and Bhagavata Puranas.\n\nThe followers of Vaishnavism are referred to as \"Vaishnava(s)\" or \"Vaishnavites\". A large percentage of Hindus are Vaishnavas, with the vast majority living in India. Awareness, recognition, and growth of the belief has significantly increased outside of India in recent years. The Gaudiya Vaishnava branch of the tradition has significantly increased the awareness of Vaishnavism internationally, since the mid-1900s, largely through the activities and geographical expansion of the Hare Krishna movement, primarily through ISKCON and more recently, through several other Vaishnava organizations conducting preaching activities in the West.\n", "id": "223774", "title": "Vaishnavism"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223787", "text": "Oracle Corporation\n\nOracle Corporation is an American company. It makes hardware systems and enterprise software (\"software for businesses\") such as database management systems. Its headquarters are in Redwood City, California, United States. The founder is Lary Ellison. In 2010, it employed 105,000 people worldwide. It has increased in size through natural growth and by buying other companies. By 2007 Oracle had the third-largest software revenue, after Microsoft and IBM.\n\nIn January 2010 it bought Sun Microsystems.\n\nThe corporation has arguably become best known for its flagship product, the Oracle Database. The company also builds tools for database development and systems of middle-tier software, enterprise resource planning software (ERP), customer relationship management software (CRM) and supply chain management (SCM) software.\n\n, Larry Ellison, a co-founder of Oracle Corporation, has served as Oracle's CEO throughout its history. He also served as the Chairman of the Board until his replacement by Jeffrey O. Henley in 2004. On August 22, 2008 the Associated Press ranked Ellison as the top-paid chief executive in the world.\n\nWhen the company started, computer database technology was only starting. Ellison had read a 1970 paper written by Edgar F. Codd on relational database management systems (RDBMS).\nHe had also heard about the IBM System R database from an article in the \"IBM Research Journal\" by Ed Oates. System R was also based on Codd's theories. Ellison wanted to make Oracle's product compatible with System R, but IBM stopped this by keeping the error codes for their DBMS (\"DataBase Management System\") secret. Ellison co-founded Oracle Corporation in 1977 with Bob Miner and Ed Oates under the name Software Development Laboratories (SDL). In 1979 SDL changed its name to Relational Software, Inc. (RSI). In 1982, RSI renamed itself Oracle Systems to make the relation to its main product, Oracle Database, clearer. At this stage Bob Miner was the company's senior programmer. In 1995, Oracle Systems Corporation changed its name to Oracle Corporation.\n\nPart of Oracle Corporation's early success came from using the C programming language to install its products. This made changing the setup to different operating systems (most of which support C) easier.\n\n", "id": "223787", "title": "Oracle Corporation"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223790", "text": "Queen (butterfly)\n\nThe Queen (\"Danaus gilippus\") is a species of butterfly. It belongs in the family Nymphalidae. It is found in North America, Central America, and South America.\n\nThe upper side of the wings is dark reddish-brown. It has black wing borders. Males have an androconium (a spot that releases scents to attract females) on each of his hind wings (bottom wings). The underside of the wings is reddish-brown. The wings have black borders. There are white spots in the black borders. The hind wing has black veins.\n\nThe Queen is one species in a complex mimicry ring. Where their range overlaps, the appearance of these butterflies is similar. The Monarch (\"Danaus plexippus\") is orange. It has thick, black veins. The Viceroy (\"Limenitis archippus\") is smaller. It has thick, black veins. It has a black band across the hind wing. The Soldier (\"Danaus eresimus\") has thin black veins. On the underside of the hind wing, there is a row of pale, square-shaped spots.\n\nMonarchs are bad-tasting and poisonous because they contain a chemical known as cardenolide (cardiac glycoside). The chemical slows the heart-beat of vertebrates. Monarch caterpillars get this chemical when they feed on milkweed. \n\nWhen the Monarch becomes a butterfly, it no longer eats milkweed, but it still has the chemical in its body. The butterfly shows that they are not good to eat with their bright orange and black wings. This is warning coloration. A bird may try to eat a Monarch, but it will become sick and vomit after eating it. After this experience, the bird learns not to eat another Monarch, and also any other butterfly which is similar in appearance. \n\nThe Viceroy is similar looking to the Monarch, but does not have the milkweed poison in its body. Birds that have had the bad experience of eating a Monarch will usually not eat a Viceroy. It is an example of Batesian mimicry. Or so it was thought; but recent work has challenged this. The difficulty in doing this kind of research is that a butterfly may be toxic in one part of its range, and good to eat in another part. A lot depends on the plants on which the eggs are laid.\n\nThe Queen is one of many insects that derives chemical defenses against its predators from its food plant. Most of the toxic cardenolides that make queens so unpalatable to its predators are sequestered from larval host plants. Basically, the Queen shares a Müllerian mimicry with the Monarch. However, the extent of its toxicity varies a great deal in different parts of its range. Micro-geographic differences in the environment lead to variation in the dynamics of mimetic relationships even at a local level.\n\nThe Queen can be seen all year in Texas, Arizona, and southern Florida. It is seen from February to December in northern Florida. It is seen from April to November in southern California and southern Nevada.\n\nThis butterfly can be found in open places such as open woodlands, fields, deserts, marshes, and forest edges.\n\nThe female lays her eggs singly. They are laid on the leaves, stems, and flowers of the host plant (the host plant is the plant that the caterpillar feeds on). The egg is pale green. The caterpillar is banded with yellow and black. There are three pairs of black body extensions. The first pair is near the head. The second pair is on the thorax. The third pair is near the end of the body. The chrysalis is green. It has gold spots. There is a black and gold band on the abdomen. It is very similar to the Monarch's chrysalis. It has three or more broods (a brood is a group of offspring) per year.\n\nHere is a list of host plants that the Queen caterpillar feeds on:\n\n", "id": "223790", "title": "Queen (butterfly)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223844", "text": "2006 North Indian Ocean cyclone season\n\nThe 2006 North Indian Ocean cyclone season ran through all of 2006. Though most storms in this area start between April and December. This was the first year the cyclones got named in the northern Indian Ocean. There was about $6.7 million in damage and about 192 people got killed in 2006 because of the cyclones. \n\nDeep Depression ARB 01 or Tropical Cyclone O1A stared on January 13 to the south of India. It died on the next day.\n\nMala started as Tropical Cyclone 02B on April 25 and became Cyclonic Storm Mala later on that day. It headed northeast and later it became a very sever cyclonic storm. Mala made landfall in Myanmar on April 29, the winds were close to 115 mph. The cyclone died over Myanmar later that day. Mala killed about 22 people. \n\nTropical Cyclone 02 started on July 2 near India. The cyclone made landfall in India later that day and it survived until July 5.\n\nThis Deep Depression was Tropical Cyclone 03 and started on August 2. By August 5 it had died.\n\nThe fifth depression in 2006 started on August 12 and it died on August 13. \n\nThis depression lasted from August 16 to August 18.\n\nThis depression started on August 29 and it died on September 1. \n\nDepression BOB 07 started on September 3 and died by the next day. \n\nThis depression started on September 21. It later made landfall near the India and Bangladesh border. It died on September 24. The cyclone killed about 170 people. \n\nMukda started in the Arabian Sea on September 21. It became a strong tropical storm over the next few days. It died on September 24. \n\nThis depression started on September 28. On September 29 it made a landfall in India. The cyclone died on the next day over India. \n\nOgni was the final cyclone that started on October 29 as a deep depression. It moved very slowly and made a landfall in India. Cyclonic Storm Ogni died on October 30, after it killed at least 35 people. \n\nThese three names got used in the 2006 North Indian Ocean cyclone season:\n\n", "id": "223844", "title": "2006 North Indian Ocean cyclone season"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223845", "text": "List of North Indian Ocean cyclone seasons\n\nThese are lists of seasons for the List of North Indian Ocean cyclone. A North Indian Ocean cyclone season lasts an entire year. It covers the North Indian Ocean to the north of the Equator, it also covers the Arabian Sea and the Bay of Bengal.\n\n2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 \n", "id": "223845", "title": "List of North Indian Ocean cyclone seasons"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223850", "text": "2005 North Indian Ocean cyclone season\n\nThe 2005 North Indian Ocean cyclone season ran through all of 2005. Though most storms in this area start between April and December. This season was tied for the season with the second highest number of cyclones. The damage is unknown but there were about 1,227 people got killed in 2005 because of the cyclones. \n\nA tropical depression started on January 7. It moved to the north and pass by Sri Lanka before it had died on January 10. \n\nCyclonic Storm Hibaru was the first cyclone that got named in 2005. It started on January 13 and it moved around for a few days until it died on January 17. \n\nThis deep depression started on July 29, it caused rain in India which killed almost 1,050 people. The deep depression died on July 31. \n\nCyclonic Storm Pyarr started on September 17 as a depression. It became a tropical storm by the next day. Pyarr made landfall in India on September 19, and it died on September 21. The cyclone killed at least 49 people. \n\nThis tropical storm started on October 1, made landfall in India on October 2, and it died on October 3. This tropical storm killed no one. \n\nThis deep depression started on October 26 and made landfall in India by October 29. The deep depression died later that day. It killed about 100 people.\n\nCyclonic Storm Baaz started on November 28 and cross the Bay of Bengal. It died on December 2 near India. \n\nCyclonic Storm Fanoos started on December 6. It moved to the west and crossed the Bay of Bengal. Fanoos passed to the north of Sri Lanka and caused some damage. Later, Fanoos made landfall in Inda before it died on December 10.\n\nThis deep depression started on December 15. It moved around in the Bay of Bengal for a week, and it passed near Sri Lanka. The deep depression died on December 22. \n\nThere were also five depressons. The first one started on June 21 and died on June 22. While the second started on June 27 and died on July 5, after it killed about 34 people in India. The third started on September 12 and died on September 16. Fourth, it started on September 14 and died on September 16. The last depression started on November 20 and died on that same day.\nThese four names got used in the 2005 North Indian Ocean cyclone season:\n", "id": "223850", "title": "2005 North Indian Ocean cyclone season"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223852", "text": "India Meteorological Department\n\nThe India Meteorological Department (IMD), also referred to as the Met Office, is a weather forecasting organization run by the Government of India, it also tracks and forecast tropical cyclones, similar to the National Hurricane Center. The headquarters in New Delhi, India.\n\n", "id": "223852", "title": "India Meteorological Department"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223862", "text": "Sauropodomorph\n\nSauropodomorpha is the suborder of dinosaurs with massive, quadrupedal herbivores with extremely long necks and tails. \n\nSauropodomorpha are divided into prosauropods and sauropods. Among the sauropods were the largest land animals ever known: \"Seismosaurus\", \"Diplodocus\", \"Apatosaurus\" (popularly known as \"Brontosaurus\"), and others.\n\nOnly the modern blue whale is larger than these creatures; no land animal comes close. \"Argentinosaurus\", with a vertebra over 1.59 metres long, is the largest.\n\n", "id": "223862", "title": "Sauropodomorph"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223864", "text": "Marginocephalia\n\nMarginocephalians (meaning \"fringed heads\") are a group of Ornithischian (bird-hipped) dinosaurs that have a distinctive skull structure (a slight shelf or bony frill on the back of the skull), a unique palate (part of the mouth) and a short pubis (part of the hip). \n\nThese herbivores include the ceratopsians (horned dinosaurs like \"Triceratops\", \"Styracosaurus\", \"Pentaceratops\", and \"Protoceratops\") and the pachycephalosaurians (thick-skulled dinosaurs like \"Stegoceras\" and \"Pachycephalosaurus\").\n", "id": "223864", "title": "Marginocephalia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223865", "text": "List of WWE Tag Team Championship reigns by length\n\nThis is the Title History of the WWE Tag Team Championship. The title is used on all three brands after being unified with the World Tag Team Championship creating the WWE unified tag team championship.\n\nAs of January 23, 2010:\n\nTeam combined length:\n\nIndividual combined length:\n\n", "id": "223865", "title": "List of WWE Tag Team Championship reigns by length"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223880", "text": "Yunnan\n\nYunnan is a province in southwest province of the People's Republic of China. The area of Yunnan Province is . It spans approximately 394,000 square kilometres (152,000 sq mi) and has a population of 45.7 million (2009). The capital of the province is Kunming. The province borders Vietnam, Laos and Burma.\n\nYunnan Province is divided into eight municipalities (地级市) and eight autonomous prefectures (自治州).\n\nYunnan's cultural life is one of remarkable diversity. It is famous for ethnic minority groups, Yuanmou Human archaeological findings, ancient Tea Horse Road legends, Puer teas and Yunnan Baiyao medicines. \n\n\n", "id": "223880", "title": "Yunnan"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223892", "text": "Deluge myth\n\nA Deluge myth or Flood myth is a mythical story about a flood. Usually this flood is sent by a deity to destroy a civilisation as a punishment. The theme can be found in many cultures. Well-known examples that are believed to be myths include the story of Noah's Ark in the Bible, the Hindu Puranic story of Manu, Deucalion in Greek mythology or Utnapishtim in the Epic of Gilgamesh.\n", "id": "223892", "title": "Deluge myth"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223894", "text": "Conservation of mass\n\nThe law of conservation of mass states that mass can neither be created nor destroyed in a chemical reaction. Thus, the amount of matter cannot change. Antoine Lavoisier promoted this idea. \n\nThis law says that when a chemical reaction rearranges atoms into a new product, the mass of the reactants (chemicals before the chemical reaction) is the same as the mass of the products (the new chemicals made). More simply, whatever you do, you will still have the same amount of stuff. \n\nBroader account: In any chemical reaction, nuclear reaction, or radioactive decay in an isolated system, the total mass of the starting materials must be equal to the mass of the products.\n\nThe principle of conservation of mass was first outlined by Mikhail Lomonosov (1711–1765) in 1748. He proved it by experiments—though this is sometimes challenged. Antoine Lavoisier (1743–1794) had expressed these ideas in 1774. Others whose ideas pre-dated the work of Lavoisier include Joseph Black (1728–1799), Henry Cavendish (1731–1810), and Jean Rey (1583–1645).\n", "id": "223894", "title": "Conservation of mass"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223922", "text": "Thomas Cromwell, 1st Earl of Essex\n\nThomas Cromwell, 1st Earl of Essex, KG, PC (c. 1485 – 28 July 1540) was an English statesman and lawyer. He was King Henry VIII's chief minister (like Prime Minister) from 1532 to 1540. He held many important posts, ending as Lord Chamberlain. Cromwell did not come from a rich or noble family: he rose in life by his work and merit.\n\nCromwell tried to modernize government, but this meant that both the nobility and the church would have less power. Because of this he was seen as an upstart. He was one of the strongest supporters of the English Reformation, the English Church's break with the papacy in Rome. Henry VIII was made the head of the Church of England by Parliament in 1534. Cromwell helped control the new Church with his two new jobs; Vicegerent for spirituals and Vicar general.\n\nCromwell had supported Henry VIII in disposing of Anne Boleyn and replacing her with Jane Seymour. During his years as the King's chief minister, Cromwell created many powerful enemies for himself.\n\nHis final downfall was caused by the haste with which he encouraged the king to marry Anne of Cleves. This was a marriage that Cromwell hoped would put the English Reformation back on track after the recent setback with the Six Articles. The enterprise became a disaster when King Henry told Cromwell that he had not consummated the marriage. Henry told Cromwell to get him out of the marriage by legal means, but the king was obliged to go ahead with it or risk the vital German alliance. The king's marriage to Anne of Cleves was a disaster for Cromwell. It was the opportunity that Cromwell's opponents (most notably the Duke of Norfolk) needed to press for his downfall. \n\nCromwell was executed at Tyburn on 28 July 1540, the same day that the king divorced Anne of Cleves and married Catherine Howard. After his execution, Thomas Cromwell's head was boiled and then set upon a spike on London Bridge, facing away from the City of London. \n\nHenry came to regret Cromwell's execution. About eight months afterwards, Henry accused his ministers of bringing about Cromwell's downfall by false charges. Henry spent the rest of his life lamenting the fact that Cromwell had been executed.\n\nOliver Cromwell, the revolutionary leader who overthrew the British monarchy and led a short-lived republican government in the 17th century, was a descendant of Thomas Cromwell's sister, Catherine Cromwell (born circa 1482).\n", "id": "223922", "title": "Thomas Cromwell, 1st Earl of Essex"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223927", "text": "Photolithography\n\nPhotolithography is the combination of photography and lithography. Its uses include the mass printing of photographs. Microphototolithography is the use of photolithography to transfer geometric shapes on a photomask to the surface of a semiconductor wafer for making integrated circuits.\n\nPhotolithography makes integrated circuits such as memory and central processing units.\nA special light-and-shadow pattern is shone through a photomask, onto a sheet or wafer of silicon that had been covered with a material called a photoresist. The light hardens the photoresist. When the board is dipped into a special acid, the parts that had no light on them are dissolved away. \n\nMemory chips have thousands or millions of identical cells. Because is much easier to make than a CPU, (a large die with a non-repetitive structure), RAM chips are far less expensive than processors.\n", "id": "223927", "title": "Photolithography"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223940", "text": "Christian liturgy\n\nA liturgy is a special set of rituals done by a group of people as a form of worship. A Christian liturgy is such a liturgy, done by different Christian denominations. The forms of worship changed over time, and different groups also have different prescriptions on how such a celebration should be done. The celebration on a Sunday or a holy day such as Easter might be different from that which is done every day.\n\n", "id": "223940", "title": "Christian liturgy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223941", "text": "Booby prize\n\nA Booby prize is a prize of low value or a joke prize. It is sometimes given for a terrible performance or last-place finish. Booby prizes are sometimes humorously and jokingly seen as an object of pride as being noticed for doing something special - losing or coming in last-place. A booby prize is usually awarded and received with pleasant humor and understanding, it is not seen as a sign of disgrace. \n\n", "id": "223941", "title": "Booby prize"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223972", "text": "Jerilderie, New South Wales\n\nJerilderie is a town of 768 people in the southern Riverina region of New South Wales, Australia. It is the only town in the Jerilderie Shire Council Local Government Area.\n\nIt can be found along the Newell Highway south-west of Sydney and north of the Victorian state border. Jerilderie's post code is 2716.\n", "id": "223972", "title": "Jerilderie, New South Wales"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223975", "text": "Macropod\n\nMacropods are marsupials belonging to the family Macropodidae. That family includes kangaroos, wallabies, tree-kangaroos, pademelons, and several others. They are native to Australia, New Guinea, and their surrounding islands. Before European settlement, there were about 65 species of Macropods. Six species have since become extinct. Another 11 species have been greatly reduced in numbers.\n\nModern Macropods are herbivores. They have specialized teeth made for grinding up fibrous plants. Macropods usually have a row of broad, straight front teeth, no canines, and a gap before their large molars. \n\nThe stomachs of the Macropods contain lots of bacteria that help them to digest their food by breaking it down for them. Macropods have a certain blend of bacteria in their stomachs that lowers the amount of methane produced.\n\nMacropods come in all different sizes. Almost all have a powerful tail and large back legs. The word Macropod comes from the Greek \"large foot\". These long legs allow Macropods to move quickly, and for long distances.\n\nGestation lasts approximately one month. In larger species, it lasts a little longer. Usually a single offspring is born. It attaches itself to a teat inside the mother's pouch. The offspring is able to leave the pouch after 5-11 months. It is sexually mature at 1-3 years old, depending on the species. \n\nMarsupials evolved about 160 million years ago during the Jurassic period. The oldest Macropod fossil found is about 12 million years old.\n", "id": "223975", "title": "Macropod"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223982", "text": "Shengzhou\n\nShengzhou is a city of Zhejiang Province in China. It is a part of Shaoxing Municipality. Its population(including suburbs) is about 735 000. Yueju Opera,which is a Chinese opera popular in China, originated in Shengzhou.\n", "id": "223982", "title": "Shengzhou"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223984", "text": "Yueju Opera\n\nYueju Opera (),is a Chinese opera popular in China. It originated in Shengxian County(namely Shengzhou). The word \"Yue\" in Chinese means Zhejiang province and the regions around it. \"ju\" means (Chinese) opera. At present, Yueju Opera is the second most popular opera in China, after the Beijing Opera.\n", "id": "223984", "title": "Yueju Opera"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223985", "text": "Harbin\n\nHarbin, also called Ha'rbin or Haerbin, is the capital city of Heilongjiang, a northeast province of China. In recent years, Harbin is well-known worldwide for Harbin International Ice and Snow Sculpture Festival, Harbin Summer Music Festival and Harbin International Beer Festival. Harbin Ice Festival makes Harbin become China's coolest ice city for winter holiday trip. \n\nGoverning 12 districts and 10 counties, Harbin Municipality has a population of 9,873,743 and 4,754,753 of whom lives in the city proper of Harbin. \nAdministrative divisions as below:\n\n\n", "id": "223985", "title": "Harbin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224006", "text": "Sirach\n\nSirach, by Ben Sira, which is also known as Wisdom of Jesus son of Sirach, the Wisdom of Ben Sira, or Ecclesiasticus, is a work from the early second century BC, its original version being written in Hebrew. It is part of the Apocrypha or deuterocanonical books.\n\n\"All wisdom is from the Lord\nand with him it remains for ever. \nThe sand of the sea, the drops of rain, \nand the days of eternity- who can count them?\"\n\n", "id": "224006", "title": "Sirach"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224027", "text": "Alveolus\n\nAn alveolus (plural: alveoli) is a word used in anatomy for hollow cavities, which are empty areas within a body.\n\nAlthough there are many different types of alveoli in the body, the word alveoli is usually used to talk about small air sacks in the lungs of mammals. These are also called \"pulmonary alveoli\". These alveoli are located at the ends of the air passageways in the lungs. They have very thin (one cell thick), wet walls and are surrounded with a network of small blood vessels, or capillaries. This allows gases to diffuse, or move across, the surface of the alveolus.\n\nWhen a mammal breathes in, the concentration of oxygen is higher in the alveolus than in the red blood cells. Therefore, oxygen leaves the alveolus and enters the red blood cells. When a mammal breathes out, the opposite happens. The concentration of carbon dioxide is lower in the alveolus than in the red blood cells, so carbon dioxide leaves the red blood cells, enters the alveolus, and is exhaled.\n\nIn an average human lung, there are 480 million alveoli. Their total surface area is around 75 square meters.\n\nInside the alveoli is where a gas exchange occurs. Gas exchange is a biological process through which (usually two) different gases are transferred in opposite directions across a specialised respiratory surface. Gases are constantly required and produced as a by-product of cellular and metabolic reactions so an efficient system for their exchange is extremely important. It is linked with respiration in animals, and both respiration and photosynthesis in plants.\n", "id": "224027", "title": "Alveolus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224028", "text": "Parasitoid\n\nParasitoids are parasites whose larvae develop inside another organism's body. This usually results in the death of the host, which sets them apart from 'traditional' parasites. There are twelve superfamilies of parasitic wasps which are entirely or mainly parasitoid. The largest family are the ichneumons, with over 80,000 species. \n\nIn parasitoids the adult stage is free-living: it finds the 'host' for the next generation. Their mother places them, as eggs, on or in the body of a 'host', which provides food for their growth. \nNormal parasites use vectors as their main means of getting to other hosts. \n\nIn Hymenoptera, there are many variations, and the distinction between the 'parasitic' and the 'traditional' hymenoptera can run very thin. \nIn Britain there are about 6500 species of Hymenoptera more than in any other insect order and just one of the parasitoid superfamilies, Ichneumonoidea, contains nearly half of them. Most workers now recognise only two families in Ichneumonoidea. These are Ichneumonidae, with over two thousand British species, and Braconidae, with nearly 1200 representatives in Britain. They are, respectively, the largest and the second largest families of British insects. Only a beetle family, the Staphylinidae, is near the thousand mark. Ichneumonoids also include the largest parasitoids.\nHymenopteran parasitoids often have unique life cycles. In one family, the Trigonalidae, the female wasps deposit eggs into small pockets they cut into the edge of leaves with their ovipositor. A caterpillar chewing these leaves may swallow some of the eggs. When they get into the caterpillar's gut, they hatch and burrow through the gut wall and into the body cavity. Later they search the caterpillar's body cavity for other parasitoid larvae, and it is these they attack and feed on. Some trigonalids, once in a caterpillar or sawfly larva, need their host to fall prey to a social wasp. The wasp carries the caterpillar back to its nest, and there it is butchered and fed to the wasp's young. The young serve as host for the trigonalid, the eggs of which are in the butchered caterpillar.\n", "id": "224028", "title": "Parasitoid"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224031", "text": "Imago\n\nIn entomology, the imago is the last stage in the development of an insect. In an incomplete metamorphosis it comes after the last ecdysis. If the metamorphosis is complete, it comes after emergence from the pupa. This is the only stage where the insect is sexually mature and (if a winged species) has functional wings. The imago is often referred to as the \"adult stage\".\n", "id": "224031", "title": "Imago"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224032", "text": "Jennifer Todd\n\nJennifer Todd (born in 1969 in California) is an American movie producer. She and her sister, Suzanne, run a production company called \"Team Todd\".\n\nTheir credits include the three Austin Powers movies, \"Boiler Room\", \"Prime\", \"Must Love Dogs\", and \"Memento\" for which she won an Independent Spirit Award for best movie, \"Across the Universe\", starring Evan Rachel Wood and Jim Sturgess, and directed by Julie Taymor, and \"The Accidental Husband\", directed by Griffin Dunne and starring Uma Thurman, Colin Firth and Jeffrey Dean Morgan.\n", "id": "224032", "title": "Jennifer Todd"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224033", "text": "Christopher Paolini\n\nChristopher Paolini (born November 17, 1983 in Southern California) is an American writer. He is best known as the writer of the Inheritance cycle, which has the books \"Eragon\", \"Eldest\", \"Brisingr\", and the fourth book. He lives in Paradise Valley, Montana.\n\nChristopher Paolini is famous for publishing his book, Eragon when he was only seventeen years old. He began writing the book when he was fifteen. His second book, Eldest, was released in 2005. His third book, Brisingr, was released in 2008. The final book of the Inheritance Cycle, Inheritance, was released on 8 November, 2011.\n", "id": "224033", "title": "Christopher Paolini"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224037", "text": "Dougie Poynter\n\nDougie Lee Poynter (born 30 November 1987) is a British musician. He was born in Corringham, Essex. He is the bass player and singer for British pop punk band, \"McFly\". The band's first single, \"Five Colours In Her Hair\", reached number one in the charts, as did their first album, \"Room On The Third Floor\". McFly were signed to Island Records before creating their own indie label, Super Records in December 2007. Poynter is the band's youngest member having joined the band at the age of 15.\n\nPoynter won the 2011 UK series of \"I'm a Celebrity ... Get Me Out of Here!\".\n", "id": "224037", "title": "Dougie Poynter"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224040", "text": "Ali Hassan al-Majid\n\nAli Hassan Abd al-Majid al-Tikritieh ( , 30 November 1941 – 25 January 2010) was an Iraqi minister. He was a member of the Baath Party. During his life, he was Defense Minister, Interior Minister, military commander and chief of the Iraqi Intelligence Service. He was also the governor of occupied Kuwait during the Gulf War.\n\nHe was a first cousin to the late President of Iraq Saddam Hussein. During the 1980s and 1990s, he became notorious for his role in the Iraqi government's campaigns against internal opposition forces, namely the ethnic Kurdish rebels of the north, and the Shia religious dissidents of the south. Repressive measures included deportations of the population and mass killings; al-Majid was dubbed \"Chemical Ali\" by Iraqi Kurds for his use of chemical weapons in attacks against them.\n\nAl-Majid was captured after the 2003 invasion of Iraq and was charged with war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide. He was convicted in June 2007 and was sentenced to death for crimes committed in the al-Anfal campaign of the 1980s. His appeal against the death sentence was rejected on 4 September 2007, and was sentenced to death for the fourth time on 17 January 2010. Al-Majid was executed by hanging eight days later.\n", "id": "224040", "title": "Ali Hassan al-Majid"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224041", "text": "Bamba (snack)\n\nBamba () is an Israeli corn snack and is considered to be one of the most popular snacks for children. \n\nBamba has been made since 1963 with no decline in sales. Bamba makes up 25% of the Israeli snack market.\n", "id": "224041", "title": "Bamba (snack)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224043", "text": "Bamba\n\nBamba may refer to:\n\n\n", "id": "224043", "title": "Bamba"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224056", "text": "List of ChuckleVision episodes\n\nThis is a list of \"ChuckleVision\" episodes. \"ChuckleVision\" is a popular British children's television series.\n\nAll the episodes in Series 12-13 were originally 20 minutes in length, but in 2004 the BBC cut them down to 15 minutes in length to suit their schedule. The original length 20 minute episodes are very rarely broadcast.\n\n2002 Christmas Specials\nThe Series\n\n2008 Christmas Special\n\nAll information in this article is sourced from \"http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b006w487/episodes\". Due to the fact that not all episodes are displayed on this website at any one time, the information in this article was also confirmed as being correct from the BBC helpline - 03700 100 222.\n", "id": "224056", "title": "List of ChuckleVision episodes"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224082", "text": "Car stereo\n\nA car stereo is a device that can be in a car to listen to the radio, play cassettes or CDs. More modern car stereos can also play music from memory sticks.\n\nCar stereos typically can not produce much power without circuit which makes the car's battery voltage higher. Often car speakers have lower impedance. Then it is easier to get more audiopower without having higher voltage.\n", "id": "224082", "title": "Car stereo"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224085", "text": "Eudora Welty\n\nEudora Alice Welty (April 13, 1909 – July 23, 2001) was an award-winning American author who wrote short stories and novels about the American South. Her book, \"The Optimist's Daughter\", won the Pulitzer Prize in 1973 and Welty was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, among numerous awards. She was the first living author to have her works published by the Library of America. Her house in Jackson, Mississippi, is a National Historic Landmark and open to the public as a museum.\n\nWelty worked as a publicity agent for the work progress administration. She had to travel around Mississippi for her job. In her own time, she took memorable photographs. These mostly show how different people from all economic and social classes coped with the Great Depression. Collections of her photograph were published as \"One time, One place\" (1971) and \"Photograph\" (1989). \nVery often, a photograph was the basis of one of her short stories, including \"Why I live at the P.O.\", which was inspired by a woman she photographed ironing in the back of a small post office.\n", "id": "224085", "title": "Eudora Welty"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224111", "text": "Talisman\n\nA talisman is an amulet or other object considered to possess supernatural or magical powers. A talisman can have protective properties, turning away harmful or evil influences. It is a very sacred object said to give protection and good luck.\n\nIt is also said that when making an talisman the person intending to use it must craft it. \n", "id": "224111", "title": "Talisman"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224116", "text": "Eagle Comics\n\nEagle Comics was a short lived comic book company that existed to reprinting comic serials from the UK's \"2000 A.D.\" magazine for distribution in North American. They existed from 1983 to 1986 and were based in London, England, with product production and distribution in Canada. The series they brought to American audiences included-\n\n", "id": "224116", "title": "Eagle Comics"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224134", "text": "Patriarch Tikhon of Moscow\n\nSaint Tikhon of Moscow was a of Moscow in the beginning of the Soviet Union. His name, before he became a saint, was \"Vasily Ivanovich Bellavin\"(). He was by the Synod of Bishops. It is possible that the character of the elder Zosimov in the Russian novel \"The Brothers Karamazov\" was influenced by him.\n", "id": "224134", "title": "Patriarch Tikhon of Moscow"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224135", "text": "Henry James\n\nHenry James OM (18431916) was an Anglo-American novelist. He was one of the most important literary people of the late 19th century. James was the son of Henry James Senior, a clergyman, and the brother of William James, the psychologist and philosopher. He grew up mostly in the United States but spent the majority of his life in England. He became a British citizen in 1915. His sister, Alice James, was also a writer. \n\nIn his novels, he wrote from the viewpoint of one of the characters. Some literary critics compared this to impressionist painting. In his own literary criticism, James insisted that writers be allowed the greatest possible freedom in how they looked at the world. He thought a text should be realistic, and its account of life be recognisable to its readers. Good novels, to James, show life in action and are interesting. \n\nHe published fictional books, articles and books of travel, biography, autobiography, and criticism, and wrote plays, some of which were performed during his lifetime. His plays probably influenced his later novels and tales.\n", "id": "224135", "title": "Henry James"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224140", "text": "Velupillai Prabhakaran\n\nVelupillai Prabhakaran (November 26 1954 — May 18 2009) was the leader of the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam. He fought to make an independent state for the Tamil people in the north of Sri Lanka. Under his leadership, the Tamil Tigers became one of the most deadly guerilla groups in the world.\n\nPrabhakaran was born in Valvettiturai, a fishing town, on the northern tip of Sri Lanka. His father worked for the government. After Ceylon became independent in 1948, life became very difficult for the small Tamil population. There were laws to limit their chance of getting to university or working for the government. In 1972, Prabhakaran started a group called the Tamil New Tigers (TNT). In July 1975 he shot dead Alfred Duryappa, the mayor of Jaffna. Duryappa was also a Tamil, but Prahbhakaran believed he had become too close to the Sri Lankan government.\n\nPrabhakaran went to India to escape from the police. He hid in the city of Madras (now Chenai), where he turned the TNT into the Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam (LTTE). Each member had cyanide (poison) carried in a necklace which they could swallow if they were captured. Other rules that Prabhakaran made for the LTTE were that members could not smoke, drink alcohol or have sex. The last rule was changed when Prabhakaran married Mathivathani Erambu. The LTTE secretly set up training camps in India. Other Tamil guerilla groups were taken over or destroyed by the LTTE.\n\nIn July 1983, there were wide spread attacks against Tamils in Sri Lanka. Many Tamils left the country, and many young people went to the training camps in India. The LTTE fought against the government. They had their own navy, the Sea Tigers, and air force. In July 1987 Prabhakaran started a group called the \"Black Tigers\". These were a group of male and female suicide bombers. Their explosive belts have been copied by groups in Palestine, Chechnya and Iraq. India sent 100,000 peace keeping soldiers to Sri Lanka in July 1987. The Indian government and the Sri Lankan government signed an agreement, but Prabhakaran did not like it because it did not create a separate Tamil country. The Indian soldiers were soon fighting against the LTTE.\n\nThe Indian army left Sri Lanka in March 1990, having had 1200 soldiers killed. Prabhakaran became ruler of the northern part of Sri Lanka. He attacked everyone he thought was responsible for the war. In May 1991, female suicide bombers killed the former Indian Prime Minister, Rajiv Gandhi, during an election rally. Prabhakaran did not trust other people. He would only drink his own bottled water, he slept with a gun under his pillow. He thought his cousin, Mahattaya, was plotting against him. He had him and many others tortured and killed.\n\nIn 2001, the Sri Lankan government and the LTTE asked Norway to help make a ceasefire to stop the war. This lasted for four years before the fighting started again. This led to increased attacks on the LTTE by the Sri Lankan army. The LTTE were slowly forced back into a very small area. Prabhakaran and his son, Charles Anthony, were killed in the fighting, and the LTTE were defeated.\n", "id": "224140", "title": "Velupillai Prabhakaran"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224145", "text": "Mohs scale of mineral hardness\n\nMohs scale of mineral hardness is named after the scientist, Friedrich Mohs, who invented a scale of hardness based on the ability of one mineral to scratch another. Rocks are made up of one or more minerals. According to the scale, Talc is the softest: it can be scratched by all other materials. Gypsum is harder: it can scratch talc but not calcite, which is even harder. The hardness of a mineral is mainly controlled by the strength of the bonding between the atoms and partly by the size of the atoms. It is a measure of the resistance of the mineral to scratching.\n\nThe Mohs scale is for natural minerals. For manufactured products other measures of hardness are better.\n\nDiamond is always at the top of the scale, being the hardest mineral. There are ten minerals in Mohs scale, talc, gypsum, calcite, fluorite, apatite, orthoclase, quartz, topaz, corundum, and for last and hardest, diamond. Because the Mohs scale was made long ago, it is not exactly correct - for example, several minerals are now known to be harder than the diamond. The Mohs scale may not be perfect, but field geologists still find it very useful. \n\n2.5\nFingernail\n2.5–3\nGold, Silver \n3\nCopper penny \n4-4.5\nPlatinum \n4-5 Iron\n5.5 Knife blade\n6-7 Glass \n6.5 Iron pyrite\n7+ Hardened steel file \n\n \n", "id": "224145", "title": "Mohs scale of mineral hardness"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224146", "text": "Chinglish\n\nChinglish is a word for English that is influenced by Chinese. It often uses Chinese grammar and vocabulary that has been translated into English. Such as \"long time no see\" is translated from Chinese \"hǎojiǔbùjiàn\".\n\nThe term Chinglish comes from a combination of the words \"Chinese\" and \"English\".\n", "id": "224146", "title": "Chinglish"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224147", "text": "Friedrich Mohs\n\nFriedrich Mohs was a scientist who studied minerals and rocks, a German minerologist.\n\nScientist Mohs was born in Germany, and he was a minerologist who studied minerals, chemistry, physics, and mathematics. He was born in 1773, January 29th, and died in 1839, September 29.\n\nHe moved to Austria in 1801 where he found a job identifying minerals in a collection that belonged to a rich banker. He used physical characteristics of the crystals to decide what they were. One of the characteristics he used to identify minerals was hardness. \n\nHe knew that some of the minerals could scratch others and that if a mineral could make a scratch on another, it must be harder than the mineral that was scratched. He found that all minerals could scratch the mineral talc, so it must be very soft. He also found that diamonds were so hard that no other minerals could scratch them. \n\nAbout ten years later, Friedrich made a scale from one to 10 to describe mineral hardness. He gave harder minerals larger numbers and softer minerals smaller numbers. Talc, the softest mineral, he assigned to one, the smallest number on the scale. Diamond, the hardest mineral, he assigned to 10, the largest number on the scale. This scale was called Mohs scale of mineral hardness, named after Friedrich Mohs.\n\nIn 1812, Mohs became professor in Graz; in 1818, professor in Freiberg, Saxony; in 1826, professor in ViennaIn 1817, Mohs replaced his mentor Werner, who had died, as a tutor at the mining academy in Freiberg, where he worked for nine years, until he was appointed as a professor of Mineralogy at the University of Vienna.\n\nMohs ended his remarkable career as a mining advisor at the Mining University in Leoban and died aged 66, while holidaying in Italy.\n", "id": "224147", "title": "Friedrich Mohs"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224172", "text": "Chelicerata\n\nThe Chelicerata are a sub-phylum of the Arthropods. The sub-phylum consists of only two classes: the Arachnids and the Merostomata. \n\nThe Merostomata are the extinct Eurypterids and the horseshoe crabs (Xiphosura). The horseshoe crabs are a small, ancient group which has survived relatively unchanged for millions of years. Groups like this are often called living fossils. The Arachnida is the huge and successful terrestrial (air-breathing) group of spiders and their relatives.\n\nThe chelicerates originated as marine animals. The first confirmed chelicerate fossils, the eurypterids, date from 445 million years ago in the late Ordovician period. Although only four marine species survive, all of them horseshoe crabs, there are over 77,000 species of air-breathing chelicerates, and there may be about 500,000 unidentified species. \n\nThe pycnogonids may or may not be Chelicerates. This is in dispute, as genetic evidence suggests they may be an ancient sister group to all other living arthropods. There are 1,300 species of these 'sea spiders'. \n\nThe life-style of chelicerates is largely carnivorous, or other kinds of heterotroph.\n", "id": "224172", "title": "Chelicerata"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224173", "text": "Cameraman\n\nA cameraman or camera operator, is the person who takes motion pictures of the actors in a movie with a motion picture camera. They also are the people who work the cameras for television shows and news.\n", "id": "224173", "title": "Cameraman"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224222", "text": "Wire-crested Thorntail\n\nThe Wire-crested Thorntail (\"Discosura popelairii\") is a species of hummingbird. It lives in Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. Their coloring is steel-blue, with white shafts, making a pretty sight when spread. The bird has a crest of bright green feathers. These birds feed on nectar from flowers using their long tongue or catch insects on the wing.\n", "id": "224222", "title": "Wire-crested Thorntail"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224232", "text": "Avoidant personality disorder\n\nAvoidant personality disorder (AvPD) is a type of personality disorder, a long-term mental illness.\n\nPeople diagnosed with avoidant personality disorder are socially inhibited, meaning that they are shy and afraid of social situations. They feel that they are not good people and are afraid of people rejecting them. They are very sensitive to other people saying bad or negative things about them.\n\nPsychiatrists and other mental health professionals diagnose people with AvPD using a book called the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (DSM-IV-TR). They look at a person's behaviour and how they are feeling. If the person has four or more of the following signs, the DSM-IV-TR says that they have AvPD.\n\nThe symptoms of AvPD are much more serious than ordinary shyness.\n", "id": "224232", "title": "Avoidant personality disorder"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224240", "text": "Cassiopeia (mythology)\n\nCassiopeia was a woman in Greek mythology. She was the wife of Cepheus who was king of a place called Ethiopia. This is not the same place as the African country called Ethiopia. They had a daughter called Andromeda. Cassiopeia was very beautiful but also very arrogant and vain. She thought that she was better than other people. One day, Cassiopeia said that her daughter Andromeda was more beautiful than all of the Nereids. The Nereids were sea-nymphs. When the sea-god Poseidon heard what Cassiopeia had said, he was very angry. He sent floods and a sea monster called Cetus to destroy Ethiopia. Cassiopeia and her husband Cepheus asked an oracle what to do. The oracle said that they must sacrifice their daughter so they chained Andromeda to a rock. A hero called Perseus came and rescued Andromeda. Later, they got married.\n\nPoseidon was still angry with Cassiopeia and wanted to punish her. He placed her in the sky. There is a constellation called Cassiopeia named after her.\n", "id": "224240", "title": "Cassiopeia (mythology)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224241", "text": "Cassiopeia\n\nCassiopeia (or Kassiopeia) can mean:\n\n", "id": "224241", "title": "Cassiopeia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224271", "text": "Branch line\n\nA branch line is a secondary railway line. It is a more important route, usually a main line. A very short branch line may be called a spur line. David Blyth Hanna, the first president of the Canadian National Railway, said that although most branch lines cannot pay for themselves, they are essential to make main lines pay.\n", "id": "224271", "title": "Branch line"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224333", "text": "Atlantic Records\n\nAtlantic Records (Atlantic Recording Corporation) is an American record label best known for its many recordings of rhythm & blues, rock and roll, and jazz. It was founded in October 1947 by Ahmet Ertegün and Herb Abramson. It earned a reputation as the most important independent label in the USA. 1967 it was bought by Warner Bros.-Seven Arts, now the Warner Music Group, and expanded into rock and pop music, signing Cream, Led Zeppelin, Yes and Foreigner.\n\n\n", "id": "224333", "title": "Atlantic Records"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224334", "text": "Amazilia hummingbird\n\nThe amazilia hummingbird (\"Amazilia amazilia\") is a species of hummingbird. The loja hummingbird (\"A. alticola\") has less tan-brown underparts. It is sometimes thought to be a subspecies of the amazilia hummingbird.\n\nThe amazilia hummingbird lives in western Peru and Ecuador. It is mostly common, and can be seen even in big cities such as Lima and Guayaquil. It likes dry, open or partly-open habitats, but also lives in forests.\n\n", "id": "224334", "title": "Amazilia hummingbird"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224356", "text": "Wikimedia Foundation\n\nThe Wikimedia Foundation is a non-profit foundation. Their main headquarters are in the United States. The Wikimedia Foundation runs many projects using the wiki idea and the MediaWiki software. These projects include Wikipedia, Wiktionary, Wikiquote, Wikisource, Wikinews, Wikibooks, Wikiversity, Wikimedia Commons, Wikidata, Wikivoyage, and Meta-Wiki.\n\nThere are many other wikis related to the foundation, but these are mostly smaller projects. They include the Wikimedia Foundation wiki, the MediaWiki wiki, the Test Wikipedia, the Wikimedia , Bugzilla, and the Wikimania wiki. \n\nThe foundation's creation was officially announced by Wikipedia co-founder Jimmy Wales, who was running Wikipedia within his company Bomis, on June 20, 2003.\n\nThe foundation gets most of its funds from , as it is nonprofit. It also looks for grants. Some companies have helped Wikimedia by giving free computer hardware, and by hosting servers. Since people can write the wikis, Wikimedia projects are free to use. \n\nPatricio Lorente is the current Chair of the Wikimedia Foundation Board.\n\nThe Board of Trustees in charge of all the affairs of the Foundation has ten members:\n\n\nThe Foundation also has an , an international network of experts who have agreed to give the foundation meaningful help on a regular basis in many different areas, including law, organizational development, technology, policy, and outreach.\n", "id": "224356", "title": "Wikimedia Foundation"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224357", "text": "David Chalmers\n\nDavid Chalmers was born in 1966. He has lived in Australia all of his life.\n\nSince 2004 he has been a professor of philosophy at the Australian National University.\n\nHe has challenged other philosophers to solve the \"Hard Problem of consciousness\". This is the problem of explaining the relationship between physical and mental states. For example, the brain has a physical way of processing information and this makes an experience, a mental state.\n\n", "id": "224357", "title": "David Chalmers"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224365", "text": "Australian giant cuttlefish\n\nThe Australian giant cuttlefish (\"Sepia apama\") is the biggest species of cuttlefish.\n\nIt grows up to in mantle length length and over pounds in weight. Australian Giant Cuttlefish live in the southern coast of Australia, from from Brisbane in Queensland to Shark Bay in Western Australia. It lives in rocky reefs, seagrass beds, and sand or mud seafloor to a depth of 100 meters. Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins have been seen to eat them.\n", "id": "224365", "title": "Australian giant cuttlefish"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224369", "text": "Panpsychism\n\nPanpsychism is the theory that everything in the universe is somewhat sentient or conscious. They are all connected parts of the whole. \n\nPanpsychists believe that all matter in the universe has some degree of consciousness.In other words the substance of the universe is composed entirely of mind or consciousness. This is not to say that rocks have a mind but that the individual atoms and other particles in the rock have some sort of awareness and are aware of each other. Panpsychism is opposed to materialism or any doctrine that argues that the reality of the universe is composed solely of matter. Panpsychism needs no supernatural miracle to explain consciousness, it is consciousness. In other words we are all part of a grand communication scheme which is the glue that holds the universe together.\n\n\n", "id": "224369", "title": "Panpsychism"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224370", "text": "Prosauropod\n\nProsauropods were a group of early herbivorous dinosaurs that lived during the later Triassic and early Jurassic periods. \n\nThey were the largest herbivores in their environment, and quickly reached (6 to 10 meters long). All prosauropods had a long neck and small head, forelimbs shorter than the hindlimbs, and a very large thumb claw for defense. They were originally thought to be the ancestors of the sauropods, but are now considered by some as a parallel lineage.\n\nProsuropoda was named by Huene and defined by Sereno as all animals more closely related to \"Plateosaurus engelhardti\" than to \"Saltasaurus loricatus\".\n\nRecent cladistic analyses suggest that the clade Prosauropoda is a synonym of Plateosauridae. Both contain the same taxa. The issue is still active, and debated.\n", "id": "224370", "title": "Prosauropod"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224383", "text": "Admiral\n\nAdmiral is the highest rank in a navy. The term is used internationally by many countries. It derives originally from the Arabic \"amīr\" (= commander), and comes down to us by way of Old French and Latin. \n\nVariations on the term are:\n", "id": "224383", "title": "Admiral"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224411", "text": "Drosera\n\nDrosera, sometimes called Sundews, are carnivorous plants. They use a thick gluey goo called \"mucilage\" to trap and digest their prey.The mucilage is attached to special hairs called trichomes. They are one of the most common carnivorous plants. They have at least 188 species. They are found everywhere in the world except Antarctica. Many sundews species usually live for two or more years. Others live for only one year and reproduce by seed. Some sundew species can live for 50 years.\n\nIts scientific name is from the Greek δρόσος: \"drosos\" = \"dew, dewdrops\". Its English name is \"sundew\", from Latin \"ros solis\", meaning \"dew of the sun\". Both names describe the sweet-smelling, sticky (goo) that comes down the ends of on each flower . This mucilage rolls down the plant, attracting sugar-loving insects day and night. The mucilage has enzymes which digests them so that the plants can get the nitrogen it needs from it. Like all plants, the sundew makes its own food, and just uses insects for nitrogen and other nutrients. These tiny flowering plants are about tall, about as tall as an adult's hand, though some climbing sundews can be much taller. One species of sundew, the \"Drosera erythrogyne\", grew up to . Sundew roots are not very strong. They are usually simply for taking in water and keeping the sundew firmly planted to the ground.\n\nA fly, butterfly, or other nectar-loving insect will find the sweet smell of the mucilage that oozes from the plant. Landing on the colorful tip, the insect will immediately be stuck. The plant has cells that make more mucilage in the place where the insect is. The gooey mucilage will completely the insect. Then, the sundew plant wraps its outside tentacles around the insect, absorbing its nutrients. It curls its tentacles around the insect quite quickly: in some species this takes only a few seconds. Some species, like \"Drosera glanduligera\" can curl its tentacles towards its prey in less than a second. Many sundews can bend parts of themselves so that the prey will be as sticky as possible. One species, \"Drosera capensis\", actually wraps its leaf around the prey in 30 minutes, as seen in the picture on the right. The prey usually dies in about 15 minutes. The sundew will then eat the entire insect except the outside exoskeleton. When the plant has finished eating, it opens up its tentacles and drops the exoskeleton to the ground.\n\nSundews have also been used in herbal medicine for a long time. Today they are still used to stop coughs, asthma, and lung .\n\nBecause they are carnivorous (eat living things), and because of the beauty of the dew-like mucilage on their tentacles, sundews are also popular as ornamental plants. However, they can be quite hard to grow: they need lots of water (their soil usually has to keep on being very wet), and this water has to be pure (without minerals inside it), because this can stop them from growing or even kill them.\n\nParts of sundews were also eaten by Australian Aborigines.\n\n", "id": "224411", "title": "Drosera"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224415", "text": "Bee hummingbird\n\nThe bee hummingbird or zunzuncito (\"Mellisuga helenae\") is a species of hummingbird. It lives in Cuba's Isla de la Juventud. \n\nA newly hatched bee hummingbird chick may weigh about a fingernail clipping. Its weight is less than a tenth of an ounce (2 g). Because of this, it is the smallest living bird as well as the smallest theropod dinosaur on record.\n", "id": "224415", "title": "Bee hummingbird"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224421", "text": "Blue-capped hummingbird\n\nThe blue-capped hummingbird or Oaxaca hummingbird (\"Eupherusa cyanophrys\") is a species of hummingbird. It is endemic to subtropical moist forest in the southernmost part of the Sierra Madre del Sur in the Mexican state of Oaxaca. Its tiny range is threatened by habitat loss.\n\nLike the White-tailed hummingbird, it is sometimes thought to be a subspecies of the more common Stripe-tailed hummingbird.\n\n", "id": "224421", "title": "Blue-capped hummingbird"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224449", "text": "Cwmbran\n\nCwmbran is a town just outside of Newport. In 2001, about 47,254 people lived there. It has the second biggest undercover shopping center in Wales. Cwmbrân was created under the New Town Act of 1946 to house employees of the nearby steelworks. It has different industries, including the production of car parts, nylon yarn, and cookies.\n", "id": "224449", "title": "Cwmbran"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224475", "text": "Raje\n\nRaje () is the honorary title for a king or nobleman (i.e. \"your Majesty\") in India. In India, south Indian states were ruled by the royal Indian dynasties. The rulers were addressed by the people as \"Raje\".\n\nSome clans of the Maratha community put the name Raje before their original clan name. Examples of these include RajeBhosale, RajeShirke, RajeMahadik, RajeNimbalkar and RajeMane.\n\nIn states like Rajasthan, Rajput community chiefs are known by the titles that include Maharawal, Rana and Maharana. These mean the same thing as Raje or Maharaja.\n\n", "id": "224475", "title": "Raje"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224476", "text": "Flag of Colorado\n\nThe Flag of the State of Colorado has three horizontal stripes of the same width; the top and bottom stripes are blue, and the middle stripe white. On top of these stripes sits a circular red \"C\", filled with a golden disk. The blue is meant to represent the skies, the gold stands for the sunshine enjoyed by the state, the white represents the snowcapped mountains and the red represents the earth.\n\nThe flag was thought up by Andrew Carlisle Johnson in 1911 and adopted by the state's General Assembly on June 5 of the same year. \n\nHowever, the legislature did not specify the size of the \"C\" or the exact shade of blue or red. Because of this, some flags were in slightly different colors and had the \"C\" wholly within the center stripe. On February 28, 1929, the General Assembly added to the statement that the flag would be the same color blue and red as the flag of the United States. On March 31, 1964, the legislature further dictated the diameter of the gold disc to be equal to the center stripe.\n", "id": "224476", "title": "Flag of Colorado"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224489", "text": "Amethyst woodstar\n\nThe amethyst woodstar (\"Calliphlox amethystina\") is a species of hummingbird. \n\nIt is found in most of central, and eastern South America, Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Suriname (the Guianas), Paraguay, Peru, and Venezuela. The bird's range surrounds the \"Amazon countries\" into the Andes foothills and higher heights of upstream river systems, but is not along the Amazon River proper in the central Amazon Basin, or the central upper Basin; it is in Brazil at the river's outlet, and upstream for about 500 km.\n\nThe amethyst woodstar's natural habitats are subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests and subtropical or tropical moist montanes.\n\nThe amethyst woodstar was named after the amethyst crystal\n", "id": "224489", "title": "Amethyst woodstar"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224497", "text": "Harbor seal\n\nThe harbor seal (\"Phoca vitulina\"), also called the common seal, is a true seal. They are found in coastal waters of the northern Atlantic and Pacific ocean as well as Baltic and North Seas making them the most wide-ranging of the pinnipeds (walruses, eared seals, and true seals).\n\nThe females live longer than the males and females usually live to be 30 to 35, while males usually live up to 20 or 25 years old.\n", "id": "224497", "title": "Harbor seal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224513", "text": "Merit badge\n\nA Merit badge is an award earned by youth members of the Boy Scouts of America (BSA), based on things within an area of study by finishing a list of updated . The purpose of the merit badge program is to allow Scouts to find subjects to figure out if they would like to further pursue them as a career or . At first, the program also exposed Scouts to the life skills of contacting an Merit Badge Counselor they had not met before, arranging a meeting and then showing the Merit Badge Counselor their skills, kind of like to a job or college interview.\n\nMerit badges are an important part of earning the high ranks in Scouting (Star, Life, and Eagle). Eagle requires earning 21 merit badges, including 12 in specific areas such as camping, first aid, and citizenship; Life requires eleven and Star six.\n\nAt first, there were fifty-seven merit badges; today, there are 122.\n\nMerit badges are also used as ways to move up in Scouting in other countries, such as Ireland.\n\nThe following is a list of Boy Scout merit badges. Merit badge that are required for Eagle are in \"italics\"\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "224513", "title": "Merit badge"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224539", "text": "Blue-throated hummingbird\n\nThe blue-throated hummingbird, (\"Lampornis clemenciae\"), is a species of hummingbird. It is a good sized hummingbird, 11.5 to 12.5 cm (4½ to 5 inches) in length and 6 to 10 grams in weight. \n\nThe blue-throated hummingbird is darkish green on the top of its body, blending to medium gray on its belly. It has a bright white stripe behind its eye and a narrower stripe reaching backward from the corner of its bill, bordering a blackish cheek patch. Its tail feathers are iridescent blue-black with broad white tips on the outer two to three pairs. \n\nThe species gets its name from the adult male's iridescent blue throat patch (gorget). The female does not have this. Instead it has a plain grey throat. Males sing two types of songs: a simple \"peep song\", which sounds like a squeaky wheel, and a quiet but hard \"whisper song\". The female is also thought to sing during the breeding season to attract males.\n", "id": "224539", "title": "Blue-throated hummingbird"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224547", "text": "Elephant seal\n\nThe Elephant Seal is a huge seal of the genus Mirounga. There are two species, one in each hemisphere. The southern elephant seal, is found in Antarctic waters, while the northern elephant seal lives on islands of California and Mexico. The elephant seal is the largest amphibious animal. The bulls have a huge proboscis, and may weigh 750 lbs, and 8ft in length at maturity although old males can approach 11 ft long and weigh 1,375 lbs in rare cases.\n\nOutside the breeding season, elephant seals come ashore only to shed their skin, a process known as \"moulting\". In late summer, hundreds of seal gather on beaches and wallow in muddy pools of water. They lie close to gather while they gradually shed patches of hair and skin. Eventually, the old skin replaced by a new coat of sleek fur, and the seal return to water. \n\nMating is preceded by fights between males, who throw their huge bulk against each other. Winners get to mate with females.\n\nElephant seals dive to 1550 metres beneath the ocean's surface: the deepest recorded dive of an Elephant seal is . The average length of their dives is around 20 min for females and 60 min (1 hour) for males, as they search for their favorite food. Their diet includes skates, rays, squid, octopus, eels, penguin (Southerns only), and small sharks. Their stomachs also often contain gastroliths (stomach stones). \n\nThey are surprisingly good on land, faster than humans when moving over sand dunes.\n", "id": "224547", "title": "Elephant seal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224555", "text": "James Thomas Humberstone\n\nJames Thomas Humberstone (July 8, 1850 - June 12, 1939) was an English chemical engineer. In 1872, he founded the Peru Nitrate Company in the Tarapacá Province of Peru (now part of the Tarapacá Region of Chile). He introduced the Schanks System and other innovations to the industry.\n\nHumberstone was born in Dover, England. His grandfather had been director of the band of the Scottish Guard. His father worked in a post office. \n\nHis family moved to London when he was young. Humberstone worked for the London and North Western railway when he was 17. While he worked there, he learned about mechanics and chemistry. Later, he joined the Royal School of Mines in London. He was a very good student.\n\nWhen he was 25, he was hired by The Tarapaca Nitrate Company and moved to South America. Humberstone arrived at the Peruvian port of Pisagua on January 6, 1875, where he commenced working as a chemist and engineer.\n\nIn 1878 he implemented the Shanks system to make sodium carbonate. He also made other changes such as the transfer of waste water to avoid losing the materials in the gravel. \n\nIn 1879 the Chilean army landed in Pisagua, and consequently, many office workers went to the Pampa for safety. Humberstone, his wife, his mother and his two daughters went with them.\nWhen they got to Tarapaca, the governor said they should go to Arica because the military was coming. They crossed the desert because they did not want to be near the coast. It took them twenty days to get get to Arica . When the war ended, and Tarapaca became part of Chile , Humberstone continued working in the Agua Santa office. \n\nIn 1936, King George VI made him a member of the Order of the British Empire. Humberstone died in Iquique on June 12, 1939 and is buried in the British Cemetery, Tiliviche, Chile.\n", "id": "224555", "title": "James Thomas Humberstone"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224602", "text": "Brown inca\n\nThe brown inca, (\"Coeligena wilsoni\"), is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Colombia and Ecuador. Unlike most hummingbirds, the brown inca are not brightly colored. Instead they are plain brown with a white patch on the shoulder and an iridescent purple throat if seen in the best light.\n\n", "id": "224602", "title": "Brown inca"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224612", "text": "Nairobi National Park\n\nNairobi National Park is the smallest park in Kenya.\n\nThe park has lots of different kinds of animals.\n\nThe park has a lot of educational programmes for teaching visitors about the different species of animals, their habitats and their diet.\n\nThe park has an area called the Orphanage where orphaned and abandoned animals are looked after.\n", "id": "224612", "title": "Nairobi National Park"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224613", "text": "Selena\n\nSelena Quintanilla–Pérez (April 16, 1971 – March 31, 1995), known as simply Selena, was an American singer-songwriter, actress and fashion designer. She was named the \"Queen of Tejano music\" and was also known as the \"Mexican Madonna\". Selena was born as the last child of a Mexican-American father. She released her first LP record at the age of 12 with her Selena y Los Dinos band. At the 1987 Tejano Music Awards, she won the Female Vocalist of the Year award. She won this award eight times in a row. Selena signed a record agreement with EMI Latin in 1989. She released five Spanish-language albums with them, each having chart and sales success.\n\n\"Como La Flor\" became one of her signature songs after it got to number six on the US \"Billboard\" Hot Latin Tracks chart in 1992. The next year, \"Selena Live!\" won a Grammy Award for Best Mexican/American Album. In 1994, \"Amor Prohibido\" was released and five of the singles became number one hits. Selena became the first Hispanic singer to do this. The album became the fastest-selling Latin album of all time. \"Amor Prohibido\" and the song of the same name were nominated for a Grammy Award. In late 1994, Charles Koppelman, the chairman of EMI Latin, believed that Selena was ready to release a cross over album. Selena would then begin recording songs in English instead of Spanish, which would expand her career.\n\nOn 31 March 1995, Selena was killed by Yolanda Saldívar, a friend and former manager of her clothing stores. Selena's death affected people in Hispanic communities. Many candlelight vigils took place, as well as other memorials from fans. Two weeks later, Governor of Texas at the time, George W. Bush, made 16 April \"Selena Day\" in Texas. Her crossover album \"Dreaming of You\", which was not finished, was released on 18 July 1995. In 1997, Warner Bros. released a movie about her life. Puerto Rican actress Jennifer Lopez played the role of \"Selena\" in the movie. The role helped Lopez become famous.\n\nIn 2005, a tribute concert called \"Selena ¡VIVE!\" premiered on Univision. The show had the highest ratings in the channel's history. It was also the most-watched Spanish-language show in the history of American television. It was watched by more than 37 million people in the United States. In 2006, a Selena museum was built in Q-Productions. Mirador de la Flor, a bronze life-sized statue, was created in memory of Selena. These memorials are in Corpus Christi, Texas. The statue is visited by hundreds of fans every week. As of 2012, Selena has sold over 60 million albums worldwide.\n\nSelena Quintanilla was born on Easter Day 16 April 1971 in Lake Jackson, Texas. Her mother, Marcella Ofelia Samora, is half Mexican American and half Cherokee Native American, while her father, Abraham Quintanilla Jr, is Mexican-American. Selena was raised as a Jehovah's Witness.\n\nAbraham was a musician, but he abandoned his musical ambitions to support his family. Selena began singing along with Abraham's guitar pickin'.\n\nAbraham organized his children into a band called \"Selena y Los Dinos\" (\"Selena and the Boys\"). 'Dinos' is an Italian slang word.\n\nIn 1982, Abrahm opened a Mexican restaurant called \"PapaGayos\" (). However, the restaurant closed because of the recession of 1982. The family declared bankruptcy, and were evicted (forced to move from their home). They settled in Corpus Christi, Texas. Abraham asked people in town to hire Selena y Los Dinos. They needed money and played wherever they could get a gig. They performed at street corners, weddings, quinceañeras and fairs.\n\nIn 1984, Selena recorded her first LP record for Freddie Records. Selena learned Spanish by listening to others speak. The album was not sold in stores. Freddie Records did not believe a female singer could sell a record. Her father bought all of the original copies.\n\nSelena was bullied in school by other girls. When Selena was in the eighth grade, her father took her out of school. Her performance schedule was getting bigger. Which was too hard for Selena to stay in public school. She completed and mailed homework on her tour bus. When she was 17, she earned a high school diploma from The American School of Correspondence in Chicago. She was also accepted at Louisiana State University.\n\nIn 1985, Selena recorded her second LP record, \"The New Girl in Town\"; The album was not sold in stores because of copyright problems. Selena became a music guest on the \"Johnny Canales Show\". She sang \"Oh Mama\" from her second LP. In 1986, she released \"Alpha\". The album became her first LP to be released successfully. It helped her to be discovered by Rick Trevi, the founder for the Tejano Music Awards. Selena won the Female Vocalist of the Year award in 1987. She won every year for eight years after that. She also released two more LPs: \"And the Winner Is...\" and \"Muñequito de Trapo\".\n\nIn 1989, Selena signed a record agreement with EMI Latin. She became the first artist to sign with them. She also made Tejano music popular among younger people. Jose Behar said that he signed Selena because he thought he found the next Gloria Estefan. In the same year, Coca-Cola wanted Selena to become one of their spokespeople in Texas. Behar and Stephen Finfer asked EMI to begin Selena's cross over album. However, EMI did not want to start the crossover, while telling Selena that she needed a bigger fan base. She released her first album that same year. The lead single \"Contigo Quiero Estar\" got to number eight on the US \"Billboard\" Hot Latin Tracks chart in 1989.\n\nIn the same year, Chris Pérez, who was a rock guitarist, was asked to join Selena y Los Dinos. Abraham did not like Pérez because of his image and believed he would be a bad influence on his children. Selena's brother tried to tell Abraham that Pérez would change. Abraham agreed, because they were missing a guitarist. In 1990, Selena released \"Ven Conmigo\". The album became the first album by a Tejano singer to reach gold status. Around this time, Pérez and Selena fell in love with each other. Abraham was angry about this and fired Pérez from the band. Selena was warned never to see him again by her father. The two eloped on 2 April 1992. Abraham accepted the relationship and Pérez into the family. He later said that he felt guilty. He said this because he thought that it was his behavior that Selena and Pérez eloped.\n\nA registered nurse and fan named Yolanda Saldívar asked Selena's father to start a fan club in San Antonio, Texas. Saldívar had the idea after she had attended one of Selena's concerts. Abraham approved Saldívar's request. Abraham believed the fan club would bring in new fans. Saldívar soon became a close friend to Selena and the family. She was trusted and became the president of the fan club. In 1992, Selena released \"Entre a Mi Mundo\". The song \"Como La Flor\" became Selena's signature song. The album and the single helped her to tour in Mexico. Selena recorded a duet with Salvadoran singer Alvaro Torres called \"Buenos Amigos\" in 1991. The song got to number one on the Hot Latin Tracks. This became Selena's first number one song. Because of this, Selena was asked to perform \"Buenos Amigos\" in El Salvador.\n\nIn 1993, Selena released \"Selena Live!\". The album won a Grammy Award for Best Mexican/American Album. Around this time, Selena opened two clothing stores called Selena Etc. She hired Saldívar as the manger. \"Hispanic Business\" magazine wrote that Selena earned $5 million from her clothing stores. Selena also acted in a Spanish soap opera called \"Dos Mujeres, Un Camino\" in 1993. When her episode premiered, it had a record rating. In December 1993, Selena was signed with SBK Records to begin her cross over album. However, recording would not begin until late-1994.\n\nIn 1994, Selena released \"Amor Prohibido\". The album became the best-selling Latin album of all time. Five singles from the album reached number one on the Hot Latin Tracks chart. Selena was the first Hispanic artist to do this. The album was certified double platinum by the end of the year. She also won awards from Premio Lo Nuestro including Best Latin Artist and Song of the Year. Selena recorded a duet with the Barrio Boyzz called \"Donde Quiera Que Estes\". The song got to number one on the Hot Latin Tracks. This allowed Selena to tour in New York City, Argentina, Puerto Rico and Central America, where she was not well known. The album and the single of the same name were nominated for a Grammy Award. \"Amor Prohibido\" and \"No Me Queda Mas\" became the most successful singles of 1994 and 1995 on the Hot Latin Track charts, according to \"Billboard\" and Nielson SoundScan. She was then called the \"Queen of Tejano music\".\n\nIn late 1994, EMI chairman Charles Koppelman felt that Selena had succeed her goals in the Spanish market. He wanted to release a cross over album with Selena. Grammy Award-winning composers began writing songs for her to record. Her goal was to become a pop icon like Donna Summer, Paula Abdul, Madonna and Mariah Carey. Selena continued on her Amor Prohibido Tour while EMI Latin prepared the album. In 1995, Selena made a cameo in \"Don Juan DeMarco\", which starred Marlon Brando, Johnny Depp and Faye Dunaway. In February 1995, Selena performed at the Houston Astrodome. She performed for a record-breaking audience of over 60,000 fans. This was more than country singers such as George Strait, Vince Gill, Clint Black and Reba McEntire. Meanwhile, she was planning to open two more clothing stores. One was scheduled to be opened in Monterrey, Mexico.\n\nSelena visited local schools to talk to students about the importance of education. She spent her free time helping her community. She also worked with D.A.R.E.. She planned a fundraising concert to help AIDS patients. Selena also helped victims in Florida after Hurricane Andrew made landfall there in 1992.\n\nAccording to the A&E television series \"Biography\", Selena's fans were minorities in the world. She encouraged them to be the best they can be. Her biggest fear was that no one would come watch her perform. At her peak, she continued to ask her father if anybody had showed up.\n\nSelena was called the \"Mexican Madonna\", but unlike Madonna, Selena valued family and never cursed. She also was known for her \"sexy stage costumes\" that she wore while performing. Her friends and family called her a daredevil.\n\nSaldívar was an employee and manager for Selena's clothing stores and fan club. Saldívar was stealing money from these businesses and was eventually caught. Selena did not believe that her best friend could do something like that. She tried to maintain their friendship, but by March 1995, it began to get worse. Selena and her husband Pérez visited Saldívar on 30 March 1995 to get the documents that she had stolen. Saldívar did not give Selena all the documents. On the morning of 31 March 1995, Selena met up with Saldívar to collect paperwork and missing documents for tax preparations. At the hotel, Selena demanded that Saldívar give her the missing financial papers. Saldívar then claimed that she was raped in Mexico. Selena took her to a local hospital where doctors found that Saldívar was lying. This made Selena decide to end her friendship with Saldívar. When they returned to the hotel, they began arguing even more.\n\nWhen Selena turned to leave, Saldívar took a gun from her purse. She pointed it at Selena and pulled the trigger, shooting Selena in the back. Selena ran to the hotel lobby for help. She was seen holding her chest screaming repeatedly, \"Help me!, I've been shot!\". Saldívar chased her and called her a \"bitch\". Selena fell to the floor and named Saldívar as the shooter. By the time Selena arrived at a local hospital, she was pronounced dead. She was two weeks away from her 24th birthday and three days from her third wedding anniversary with Pérez. Saldívar went to her pickup truck and threatened to commit suicide. The SWAT and the FBI Crisis Negotiation Unit were called. She surrendered after nine hours.\n\nSaldívar pleaded not guilty. She said that the shooting was an accident. She said that she meant to shoot herself, not Selena. But prosecutor Carlos Valdez pointed out that Saldivar, a former nurse, did not call 911 or attempt to help Selena after she was shot. The jury sentenced Saldívar to life imprisonment. She has the right for parole in 2025. Reactions to Selena's death were compared to reactions to Elvis Presley and John Lennon's deaths. George W. Bush, Governor of Texas at the time, declared 16 April as \"Selena Day\" in Texas. Selena's death was called \"Black Friday\" in Texas. Most White Texans were offended that Selena Day would be celebrated on Easter. Many of them also wrote to the \"Brazosport Facts\" that \"Easter is \"more\" important than Selena Day\". Mexican Americans in Texas wrote negative replies to the comments that were made. One Mexican American wrote that some comments made were \"rude\". Radio host Howard Stern mocked Selena's funeral and death. Many fans disapproved of such actions and held public boycotts.\n\nIn 1997, Warner Bros. released a movie about Selena's life. Jennifer Lopez played Selena. The role helped Lopez become famous. Music critic David Bauder believed that if Selena were alive, she would have broken the record sales of Madonna, Gloria Estefan, Paula Abdul and Whitney Houston. By 1996, Selena held the record for more wins at the Latin Music Awards than any other artist. In 2006, a Selena museum was built in Q-Productions. Mirador de la Flor, a bronze life-sized statue, was created in memory of Selena. These memorials are in Corpus Christi, Texas.\n\nThe Guinness Book of World Records named Selena as the \"most dominating artist\". Selena also became the first Hispanic singer to have an album sung mostly in Spanish to reach number one. She also became the first female to place five albums at the same time on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart. The only other artists to have done this were Elvis Presley, The Beatles and Garth Brooks. \"Billboard\" wrote that the release of \"Dreaming of You\" was \"a historic day in Latin music history\". The album helped Selena to become the second-fastest selling female artist that year, behind Janet Jackson. \"Dreaming of You\" became the second-highest debut that year, behind Michael Jackson.\n\n\"People\" magazine released a tribute issue for Selena. It sold one million copies in one day. This was the only issue to have been sold out in stores across the United States. The company released three more runs, and all sold out in two weeks. This made the company to release \"People En Espanol\". A musical called \"Selena Forever\", starring Veronica Vasquez as \"Selena\", opened in Los Angeles. The American Bank Center in Corpus Christi renamed its 2,526-seat \"Bayfront Auditorium\" to \"Selena Auditorium\".\n\nA tribute concert, \"Selena ¡VIVE!\", premiered on Univision on 7 April 2005. The concert marked the 10th anniversary of Selena's murder. The show included other Latin artists performing covers of Selena's songs. The show was the highest rated and most-watched Spanish-language show in American television history. The show had about 37 million viewers, more than the number of viewers of that night's episode of \"American Idol\". The show had the highest ratings in Los Angeles, Chicago, San Francisco and New York City.\n\nSelena's fan base continues to stay strong. Selena is considered one of the most widely known Mexican-American artists and the most popular Latin artist in the United States. Documentaries are shown on Spanish-language television annually marking Selena's death anniversary. \"Billboard\" named Selena the \"Best Selling Latin Artist of the [1990's] Decade\" and \"Top Latin Artist of the 90's\". As of 2012, Selena has sold over 60 million albums worldwide.\n\nSelena was also honoured in a collaboration with cosmetics company MAC, who worked with her sister Suzette to create 14 products, including lipstick and gloss, mascara, eyeliner, eyeshadow, and a compact. “I am so excited that M.A.C Cosmetics will be releasing a collection in honor of my sister Selena,\" her sister Suzette says, “Helping to create this collection brings me back to all those late-night conversations on our tour bus when she spoke of having her own makeup line one day. If Selena were here she would be beyond ecstatic to have this happening. History is being made.” \n\n\n\n", "id": "224613", "title": "Selena"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224615", "text": "Salomon Wininger\n\nSalomon Wininger (13 December 1877, Gura Humora, Bukovina – December 1968, in Ramat Gan, Israel) was an Austrian-Jewish biographer.\n\nBefore World War I, Wininger lived in Chernivtsi and moved to Vienna during the war years, where he decided to write biographies of famous Jewish persons. This idea was pushed in order to counter the self-hating mood of Jewish youth in the city, created under the influence of Otto Weininger's works.\n\nAfter his return to Chernivtsi in 1921, Shlomo Wininger wrote about 13,000 biographies and published them in seven volumes between 1925 and 1936. He survived the time of World War II in Chernivtsi and emigrated in 1951 to Israel.\n\nWininger is considered as one of the greatest Jewish biographers of all time.\n\n\n", "id": "224615", "title": "Salomon Wininger"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224621", "text": "Indo-Canadians\n\nIndo-Canadians are Canadians whose family can trace back to India. The names \"East Indian\" and \"South Asian\" are used for people who originate from India, to tell them apart from the First Nations peoples of Canada who are often called Indian, and from the people of the Caribbean, who are sometimes called West Indian. Most Indo-Canadians call themselves \"Indian\", instead of \"East Indian\". This is because Christopher Columbus thought the Americas were India, and that Native Americans were Indian.\n\nMost Indo-Canadians come from India, but some come from the Caribbean, South America, Africa, and the Middle East. They usually live in cities like Toronto, Montreal, Ottawa, Calgary, and Vancouver. They are one of the fastest growing races in Canada, because of immigration.\n", "id": "224621", "title": "Indo-Canadians"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224660", "text": "Branko Mikasinovich\n\nBranko Mikasinovich (born November 6, 1938) is one of the foremost scholars of Yugoslav and Serbian literature and a noted Slavist. He has edited \"Introduction to Yugoslav Literature\" (Twayne, 1973), the most representative anthology of modern Yugoslav prose and poetry in English; \"Five Modern Yugoslav Plays\" (Cyrco Press, 1977), a unique collection of plays written between 1945 and 1980; \"Modern Yugoslav Satire\" (Cross-Cultural Communications, 1979). which was selected for \"Best Titles of 1979\" by Library Journal, and included in the Puschart Prize V: The Best of the Small Presses; \"Yugoslav Fantastic Prose\" (Proex, 1991), the first anthology of Yugoslav supernatural tales in English, and \"Yugoslavia: Crisis and Disintegration\" (Plyroma Publishing Co., 1994).\n\nBranko Mikasinovich received his B.A. from Roosevelt University in Chicago (1965), M.A. from Northwestern University, Evanston, IL. (1967), and Ph.D from the University of Belgrade (1984). He has taught Russian language and Slavic Literature at Tulane University and the University of New Orleans, and was president of the Louisiana Association of Professors of Slavic and Eastern European languages. He has appeared as a panelist on Yugoslav press on ABC's \"Press International\" in Chicago and PBS's \"International Dateline\" in New Orleans. He also appears on \"Voice of America\" Serbian Service television program, \"Open Studio.\"\n\nBaron Mihailo Mikasinovich, who was instrumental in opening Serbian schools in Krajina in the 18th century, Stefan Mikasinovich, a teacher of Dositej Obradovic, a prime mover of the Serbian cultural rebirth in the period of Enlightenment, and his father Sava Mikasinovich inspired, to a large extent, the author's scholarly activities.\n", "id": "224660", "title": "Branko Mikasinovich"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224673", "text": "Longuemare's Sunangel\n\nThe Longuemare's Sunangel (\"Heliangelus clarisse\") is a species of hummingbird. It can be found in Venezuela and northeastern Colombia. It is closely related to the Amethyst-throated Sunangel. The Longuemare's Sunangel is 9.4 cm (3.7 inches) long (not with the bill) and normally weighs 5.3 grams. The bill is short for a hummingbird, 1.8 cm or 0.7 in long. The overall coloring is of dark colors.\n", "id": "224673", "title": "Longuemare's Sunangel"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224677", "text": "Horned Sungem\n\nThe Horned Sungem (\"Heliactin bilophus\") is a species of hummingbird. It can make 90 wingbeats per second when it's hovering to drink nectar from flowers. A wingbeat is one complete up-and-down movement, which means that the horned sungem moves its wing muscles at a rate of more than 10,000 times per minute. It lives in Bolivia, Brazil, and Suriname. It likes mostly dry open or semi-open habitats, such as savanna and Cerrado. It does not like thick humid forest.\n", "id": "224677", "title": "Horned Sungem"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224705", "text": "Shillong\n\nShillong (Khasi: Shillong, Hindi: शिलांग) is a city in India. Shillong is the capital of Meghalaya. The East Khasi Hills district is in Shillong. In 2001, the city had a population of 260,520. Shillong is a major place in north-east India for education, because it has many schools and universities.\n\nAs of the 2001 India census, Shillong had a population of 232,946. Males and females are both 50% of the population. About 80% of people in Shillong can read, which is higher than the national average of 59.5%. 83% of males can read, and 78% of women can read. In Shillong, 11% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n\nKhasis make up most of the population. However, the percentage of Khasi people is decreasing because many other people are moving there. People of all the other northeast Indian tribes live in Shillong. Many Bengali, Nepali, Assamese, Biharis and Marwaris also live there.\n\nChristianity is the main religion in the city. Protestants make up 75% of the Christian population of Shillong and Catholics make up the remaining 25%. A lot of people in Shillong follow the original Khasi religion. There are also many other religions in the city.\n\n", "id": "224705", "title": "Shillong"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224715", "text": "Gestalt therapy\n\nGestalt therapy is a form of psychotherapy. It is a way of treating people who feel ill at ease. It is based on the idea that it is best to experience what we feel \"here and now\" and not keep thinking about the past or worry about the future. The goal is to help clients become aware of his or her thoughts, behaviours, experiences, and feelings and to \"own\" or take responsibility for them. \n\nIt forms part of what is called humanistic psychology and was co-founded by Fritz Perls, Laura Perls and Paul Goodman in the 1940s-1950s. \n\nAt the center of Gestalt therapy is the idea of \"awareness\" (knowing). The person being helped is encouraged to know his or her own feelings and behaviour, and the effect they have upon the world around them. \n\nWith Gestalt therapy, the patient is helped to see that they are trying to avoid feeling emotions from the present. Once the patient realizes this, he or she can begin to get better.\n", "id": "224715", "title": "Gestalt therapy"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224724", "text": "Weak entity\n\nA weak entity is part of an Entity-relationship model (ER model) diagram that relies on other entities (\"Strong Entities\"). Without the strong entity, the weak entity wouldn't exist.\n", "id": "224724", "title": "Weak entity"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224737", "text": "Plovercrest\n\nThe Plovercrest (\"Stephanoxis lalandi\") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Argentina, Brazil, and Paraguay. \n\nIts habitats are subtropical or tropical moist montane forest, and degraded former forest. The Plovercrest has a blue chest, green back and white flanks.\n\n", "id": "224737", "title": "Plovercrest"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224739", "text": "Special education\n\nSome children are disabled, or they have learning difficulties. Special education is about teaching these children. Some of them can be educated with other children of the same age who are not disabled. Others must go to special schools. If the disability is too bad they can not get an education. Students who have emotional problems and act poorly are sometimes expelled from school. Inclusive education is afirmed by the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities to reduce such exclusion.\n\nSpecial needs include speech or hearing difficulties, emotional and behavioral disorders, physical disabilities, and developmental disorders. Students with these special needs often get more educational services. This may mean different approaches to teaching, access to a resource room and use of technology.\n\nSome students are very smart. These students are called gifted. They also have certain needs so they can succeed. These students do better with special teaching styles or different educational programs. The word 'special education' is used for students whose special needs stop them from learning the way normal people learn. Gifted education is handled separately.\n\nSchools provide special education services to special students. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMost schools around the world use inclusion, which means children with special needs, need to earn their right to be in the regular classroom. Sometimes schools may use full inclusion for certain students such as those with mental retardation. In that case, this is where social tolerance is afforded rather than if these students actually do earn their right to be in regular classroom. Sometimes mainstreaming is used, this is when children with special needs are in regular classroom settings as much as possible and put in special classes for the rest of the day. Social integration is used for students with special needs who are in a resource room or other special class for the rest of the time.\n\nHistorically, most students with special needs have been excluded from school, and such exclusion may still occur where there is no legal mandate for special education services, such as in developing countries. \n\n", "id": "224739", "title": "Special education"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224740", "text": "Olive-spotted Hummingbird\n\nThe Olive-spotted Hummingbird (\"Leucippus chlorocercus\") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru. Its habitat is subtropical or tropical moist shrubland.\n\n", "id": "224740", "title": "Olive-spotted Hummingbird"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224744", "text": "William A. Shine Great Neck South High School\n\nWilliam A. Shine Great Neck South High School, also called Great Neck South, is a high school in New York. It is known for its high academic achievement. The school is located in Lake Success. However it is officially listed in Great Neck. It is part of the Great Neck Union Free School District. It teaches students from grade 9 to grade 12.\n\n", "id": "224744", "title": "William A. Shine Great Neck South High School"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224745", "text": "Grade retention\n\nGrade retention is when a student repeats a grade i.e. first grade, second grade, etc. Some students have disabilities and must repeat a grade due to the problem for not meeting their needs in the first place. Either way, grade retention can be emotionally damaging on a student's self-esteem.\n\n", "id": "224745", "title": "Grade retention"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224747", "text": "Eleventh grade\n\nEleventh grade (called Grade 11 in some places, also known as junior year in the United States and Australia) is the second to last year of secondary education in the United States, as well as many other nations. Students are usually 16 or 17 years old at this time, though it may be different because of the country or their birthdays.\n", "id": "224747", "title": "Eleventh grade"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224764", "text": "Village School (Great Neck, New York)\n\nVillage School (commonly VS) is the oldest public alternative high school in New York State. It was judged very good by the Center for the Study of Educational Alternatives at Hofstra University. The American School Board Journal gave the Magna Award to the School for its excellent, unique, high school program. As a member of the Coalition of Essential Schools, the Village School and its staff work closely with other member schools and with the education faculty of Brown University. The Village School is officially recognized by the Middle States Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools and certified by the New York State Education Department. There are about 50 students enrolled in the Village School each academic year.\n\nVillage School is one of three high schools in the Great Neck School District, which includes Great Neck North High School and William A. Shine Great Neck South High School. VS offers its 46 students an individualized system where students earn credits as they meet curriculum goals that have been established by their teachers. Original, performance, and published documents are assessments of these goals have long been part of a Village School student's academic history. About 99 percent of the students continue their education at four-year schools.\n\nThe alternative school provides education for grades 9-12. Many types of students attend the Village School. The Village School's catalogue describes the students saying, \n\nAll have at least average ability, some have exceptional learning abilities and artistic talents, while others have special educational needs. Students who may have felt lost and isolated in a large school often thrive in the smaller and more personalized setting of the Village School. \nThe school describes itself as a \"college preparatory public high school dedicated to encouraging academic success through a non-traditional, innovative curriculum\". Co-founder Arnie Langberg has been called \"one of the most important pioneers in the field of public alternative education.\" The admissions process at Village School is comprehensive. Each student takes part in an on-campus interview and is accompanied by a parent. The children are hand picked and visit the school twice before being considered a candidate for this program.\n", "id": "224764", "title": "Village School (Great Neck, New York)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224765", "text": "Vanessa Hudgens\n\nVanessa Anne Hudgens (born December 14, 1988) is an American actress and singer. She is most well known for starring in \"High School Musical\" and \"High School Musical 2\" on Disney Channel. She has won many awards and been nominated since \"High School Musical\". She has been on many TV shows and movies. She began acting and singing at an early age. She is in relationship with her long time boyfriend TITO, who is a professional guitarist & performer.\n\nHudgens was born in Salinas, California, and has lived with her parents along the West Coast, from Oregon to Southern California. Her mother, Gina (née Guangco), held a succession of office jobs, and her father, Gregory Hudgens, was a firefighter. She has a younger sister, Stella Hudgens, who is also an actress. She was raised as a Roman Catholic. Her father is of Irish and Native American ancestry, and her mother, a native of Manila, Philippines, is of Spanish-Chinese-Filipino ancestry. All of her grandparents were musicians.\n\n\n\n\n \n", "id": "224765", "title": "Vanessa Hudgens"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224787", "text": "Twix\n\nTwix is a chocolate bar made by Mars, Inc. It is a biscuit covered with caramel and milk chocolate. Twix was called Raider in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and Norway for many years before its name was changed in 1991 (2000 in Finland, Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Turkey).\n\n", "id": "224787", "title": "Twix"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224794", "text": "Tawny-bellied Hermit\n\nThe Tawny-bellied Hermit, (\"Phaethornis syrmatophorus\"), is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Colombia, Ecuador, and Peru.\n\n", "id": "224794", "title": "Tawny-bellied Hermit"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224797", "text": "Al-Jazira Club\n\nAl-Jazira is a football club in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.\n\nAl-Jazira was founded in 1974 when Khaladiyah and Al-Bateen merged (were put together). It was at this time that the first board of directors was formed . Mohammad Khalifa Al Kindi and Sheikh Hamdan Bin Hamad Al Nahyan helped with the administrative work of the club for a long time. Sheikh Hamdan Bin Zayed AL Nahyan’s became the honorary chairman of the club and chairman of the honorary panel, along with H. H. Sheikh Mansour Bin Zayed Al Nahyan.\n\nAl-Jazira is located in the capital Abu Dhabi. New branches of the club will be started in the Al Shawamikh, Al Bahya and Wathba areas. This is to encourage the discovery of new talented players and add them to the club teams. The total cost of these branches will be 60 million dirhams.\n", "id": "224797", "title": "Al-Jazira Club"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224819", "text": "Rose (disambiguation)\n\nRose can mean:\n\n\n", "id": "224819", "title": "Rose (disambiguation)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224821", "text": "Mad Max\n\nMad Max is a 1979 Australian action movie directed by George Miller. It is the first role of Mel Gibson. \n\n\"Mad Max\" tells a story about life in an apocalyptic world. There have been sequels.\n", "id": "224821", "title": "Mad Max"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224822", "text": "Goro\n\nGoro can mean:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "224822", "title": "Goro"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224856", "text": "Sooty Barbthroat\n\nThe Sooty Barbthroat (\"Threnetes niger\") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in French Guiana and far north-eastern Brazil. Its habitat is humid tropical lowland forest. Though normally restricted in range, it is common enough to be thought a Species of Least Concern by the IUCN.\n\nThe taxonomy and systematics of the Sooty Barbthroat complex has made much confusion. Some authors thought the Sooty Barbthroat to be a \"melanistic variant\" of the Pale-tailed Barbthroat (\"T. leucurus\").\n\nNot only that, but some suggest that the Bronze-tailed Barbthroat (\"T. n. loehkeni\") should also be thought a valid species and have the doubtful Christina's Barbthroat (\"T. n. christinae\") as a subspecies. Freire's Sooty Barbthroat (T. n. freirei) is average between the Sooty and Bronze-tailed Barbthroats however, and thus its status needs to be more clear before the problem is fixed.\n", "id": "224856", "title": "Sooty Barbthroat"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224859", "text": "Rutland County, Vermont\n\nRutland County is a county in the U.S. state of Vermont. In 2005, 63,743 people lived there. Its county seat is Rutland. The U.S. Census Bureau says that the county has 945 square miles (2,447 km²) of total area. Out of that, 933 square miles (2,415 km²) is land and 12 square miles (32 km²) is water. \n\n", "id": "224859", "title": "Rutland County, Vermont"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224861", "text": "Esmeraldas woodstar\n\nThe Esmeraldas woodstar, (\"Chaetocercus berlepschi\") is a species of hummingbird. It is found only in Ecuador. Its habitat is subtropical or tropical moist lowland forests. It is threatened by habitat loss.\n\n", "id": "224861", "title": "Esmeraldas woodstar"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224880", "text": "Stonewall Jackson\n\nThomas Jonathan Jackson (1824–1863) was an Educator and he was leading Confederate general of the American Civil War. He earned the name \"Stonewall\" after the First Battle of Bull Run. He was frequently called the most brilliant strategist in the Confederate Army. Jackson was considered Robert E. Lee's \"right hand\". Jackson was mortally wounded at the Battle of Chancellorsville. On May 2, 1863, he was scouting ahead of his lines when one of his own men mistakenly shot him. His left arm was badly wounded requiring the doctors to amputate it two inches below his shoulder. He died on May 10, 1863, at the age of 39. It is probable he died of a pulmonary embolism and not from pneumonia. \n", "id": "224880", "title": "Stonewall Jackson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224883", "text": "Gettysburg\n\nGettysburg can refer to:\n", "id": "224883", "title": "Gettysburg"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224902", "text": "Treaty of Paris (1783)\n\nThe Treaty of Paris, signed on September 3, 1783, ratified by the Congress of the Confederation on January 14, 1784 and by the King of Great Britain on April 9, 1784 formally ended the American Revolutionary War between the Kingdom of Great Britain and the United States of America. Under the terms of the treaty, Britain recognized the new nation. It agreed to remove all troops from the nation and also set new borders of the United States. The United States agreed to allow British troops to leave and to pay all debts owed to Britain. They also agreed not to persecute the Tories (people loyal to the king, also known as loyalists) still in the United States and allow those who left America to return. \n\nFrance, Spain and the Netherlands, allies of the United States, also signed peace treaties at the same time.\n\n", "id": "224902", "title": "Treaty of Paris (1783)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224903", "text": "Treaty of Paris\n\nTreaty of Paris could refer to: \n", "id": "224903", "title": "Treaty of Paris"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224912", "text": "Earmuffs\n\nEarmuffs are that are made to cover and protect a person's ears. A plastic or metal band fits over the top of the head, and there are two pads at the ends that cover the ears warmly.\n\nChester Greenwood invented the earmuffs when he was 15. His ears would turn into unusual colors like red, white, purple, or blue and begin to hurt when it was cold (he lived in Maine). Because of this, he could not try the new ice skates he got for his fifteenth birthday. Chester had tried wrapping a scarf around his head, but it was too bulky. So Chester twisted some wire so that it went across the top of his head, and made a loop on each end near his ears. Then he asked his grandmother to sew some material on the end of each loop. She put black velvet on the inside of the ears, and beaver fur on the outside of each loop, then sewed the wire across Chester's hat to make it stay.Soon lots of people in his town wanted ear warmers like Chester's, and he opened a factory when he was 19 to make them. Each year, his home town (Farmington) celebrates his invention with a parade on \"Chester Greenwood Day.\" \n\nThere are two kinds of earmuffs: \"thermal earmuffs\", which keep a person's ears warm, and \"acoustic earmuffs\", also called \"ear defenders\", which block out a lot of sound and noise and can be used in construction (building) sites, for example, when jackhammering.\n", "id": "224912", "title": "Earmuffs"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224913", "text": "Rigel\n\nRigel is a hot supergiant star in the Milky Way Galaxy. It is classified as a blue supergiant. It is located in the constellation Orion. Many scientists believe that Rigel was the youngest star even if it is the same size with the biggest star, Betelgeuse. Rigel is much bigger than our star here in the solar system, the Sun. Rigel lies 778 light-years from Earth in Orion. It is visible from Earth as a small, bluish circle on clear nights from both hemispheres. \n\nThe color of this star is bluish-white, hotter than a star with a yellow color, meaning it will use more energy quickly. The Sun runs off the same gases as Rigel; hydrogen and helium that makes it shine. When Rigel loses its fuel inside the very hot core, it will blow up into the red supergiant stage of its life and explode in a supernova. A black hole or a pulsar could be left.\n", "id": "224913", "title": "Rigel"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224917", "text": "Agence France-Presse\n\nAgence France-Presse (AFP) is a French news agency. It is the oldest one in the world, and also among the largest with Associated Press and Reuters. It is also the largest French news agency.\n", "id": "224917", "title": "Agence France-Presse"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224919", "text": "Cathode ray\n\nA cathode ray is a stream of electrons that are seen in vacuum tubes. It is called a \"cathode ray\" because the electrons are being emitted from the positive charged element in the vacuum tube called the cathode. A cathode ray tube aims the ray at a point on its screen. They were first observed in 1869 by German physicist Johann Hittorf, and were named in 1876 by Eugen Goldstein \"Kathodenstrahlen\", or cathode rays.\n\nElectrons were discovered as the constituents of cathode rays in 1897 by British physicist J. J. Thomson. He showed the rays were composed of a previously unknown negatively charged particle, which was later called the \"electron\". Cathode ray tubes (CRTs) use a focused beam of electrons deflected by electric or magnetic fields to create the image in a classic television set.\n\nSome properties of cathode rays:\n", "id": "224919", "title": "Cathode ray"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224923", "text": "Lewis structure\n\nThe Lewis structures, also called Lewis-dot diagrams or electron dot diagrams are pictures that show the bonding between a pair of electrons and the atoms of a molecule.\n\nEach dot represents one electron. Two dots side by side represent a lone pair of electrons.\n\nTo show a bond between atoms, a line representing a pair of shared electrons is placed between the two atoms.\n", "id": "224923", "title": "Lewis structure"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224926", "text": "Sentience\n\nSentience is being capable of feeling, consciousness or having some form of mind. Eighteenth-century philosophers used the concept to distinguish the ability to think (\"reason\") from the ability to feel (\"sentience\"). \n\nIn simple English, to be sentient means displaying and/or having the ability to:\n\nIn the philosophy of consciousness, \"sentience\" can refer to the ability of any thing to have subjective perceptual experiences, or as some philosophers refer to them, \"qualia\".\n\nThinking about sentience is important when studying animal rights. This is because feeling is needed in order to suffer. The basis of animal rights is that some animals have emotions, can feel pain and also feel happy and well. \n", "id": "224926", "title": "Sentience"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224935", "text": "Mansfield, Victoria\n\nMansfield is a small town at the base of the Victorian part of the Australian Alps. It is about north-east of Melbourne. In 2006 there were 4052 people living in Mansfield.\n\nMansfield is the centre of a large shire; it was made to join with the nearby town of Benalla away, to form Delatite Shire. Many people did not like this change and Mansfield became the first de-amalgamation in Victoria. Mansfield was once mainly a farming and logging town, but is now a tourist-centre. It is the support town for the large Australia ski resort Mt Buller. It is well known for the High Country tradition of alpine grazing, made famous in the movie \"The Man from Snowy River\". This was made around Mansfield, based on the poem by Banjo Paterson.\n\nMansfield, first known as Mount Battery, was at the boundary of a number of pastoral runs (very large farms). A township was surveyed in 1851 and named after Mansfield in Nottinghamshire, England. People came to live in the town after the discovery of gold nearby and the Post Office opened on January 1, 1858.\n\nThe Mansfield railway line, reached the town from Tallarook in 1891, and was closed on November 18, 1978. The last passenger train was on May 28, 1977.\n\nThe area round Mansfield named as \"Banbury\" was also the location of the novel \"The Far Country\" by Nevil Shute. It was about logging on Mount Buller and previous forest fires, which having burnt through Howqua, removed almost all evidence of an older settlement.\n\nDr. John Pearson Rowe (1810–1878) was a physician and squatter (farmer) who owned the 'Loyola Run' (also known as Mt Battery) near Mansfield. He is said to be the first catholic person to live in the district. It is recorded that the nearby town of Rochester was named after J.P.Rowe, as he owned land on the Campaspe River. Rowe was a principal founder of the University of Melbourne. He fired a shot at a 14 year old bushranger, Ned Kelly and Harry Power on 27 May 1869. Rowe stood for parliament, in the Upper House seat of the Murray District in 1859 and was defeated. In October 1878, Rowe gave information to police Sergeant Kennedy about where Ned Kelly was hiding. Using Rowe's information, Kennedy and three other policemen rode into the Wombat Ranges to find him. Three of them were killed at Stringybark Creeka, and the Kelly Gang was born.\n\nMansfield is very close to two large lakes, Lake Eildon and Lake Nillahcootie. During the summer many people go to the lakes to water ski.\n\nThe nearby mountains, Mount Buller and Mount Stirling offer attractions all year round. During winter they are visited for skiing, both downhill skiing and cross country skiing. In the summer hiking and mountain biking are popular. Ski lifts work year-round at Mount Buller which help bike riders to easily get to the top of downhill mountain biking runs.\n\nThe bush around Mansfield is used for horse riding, trail biking and four wheel driving on the many tracks throughout the region.\n\nIn past years, the \"Mansfield Balloon Festival\" celebrated hot air balloons, and many people came from from across the state. The Balloon Festival has not been held in Mansfield for several years.\n\nMansfield has a football team, the Mansfield Eagles, an Australian Rules team which plays in the Goulburn Valley Football League.\n\nMansfield has a horse racing club, the Mansfield District Racing Club, which holds two race meetings a year in November and December.\n\nGolfers play at the Mansfield Golf Club on Kidston Parade.\n\n", "id": "224935", "title": "Mansfield, Victoria"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224936", "text": "Airbus A330\n\nThe Airbus A330 is a two engine, wide-body passenger aeroplane made by Airbus. It was designed at the same time as the Airbus A340, so it has the same body and wings.\n\nIt first flew in 1992 and the first one was delivered to Air Inter in 1994. It was a 300 series. Just after this, Airbus made the shorter 200 series. Now, Airbus has made a freighter version and a tanker version (which carries additional fuel so it can give some to other planes). \n\nThere are also 394 A330s that need to be made and given to airlines. Most of these are the smaller 200 series version.\n\nAirlines wanted a new aeroplane to replace their McDonnell Douglas DC-10 aeroplanes which were getting old. So, Airbus started a new project in November 1987: the A330 and A340 programs. In the end, it was found that the A330 is almost 38% more fuel efficient than the DC-10.\n\nAirbus designed the A330 to be in the market for ETOPS aeroplanes. This market already had planes like the Boeing 767. In November 2009, the A330 was the first aeroplane to get the ETOPS-240 approval, which means that the plane is allowed to fly up to 240 minutes away from any airport. This means it can fly over large oceans or places like the Antarctic where there are no airports nearby. \n\nThe A330's body and wings are nearly exactly the same as the smaller versions of the A340's wings and body, but they have different engines. The A330's body is also similar to the older Airbus A300, and the computers and systems (like the fly-by-wire system) are similar to the Airbus A320 family of aeroplanes. Also, both the A330 and A340 are built at the same place: Toulouse-Blagnac Airport in Toulouse in France.\n\nThe 1000th A330 was ordered at the 2008 Farnborough Air Show by Cathay Pacific.\n\nAirbus thinks that it will keep building the A330 until at least 2015.\n\nThere are two main types of Airbus A330: the 200 series and the 300 series. There is also the freighter version, which carries cargo instead of people, and the tanker version which carries lots of fuel (usually to give to other planes).\n\nThe A330-200 was made to compete with Boeing's 767-300ER. It is a shorter version of the A330-300 and is like the A340-200.\n\nIn the 1990s, Airbus was not selling very many A340-200s (only 28 were built). So, Airbus used the body of the A340-200 and took the wings and engines of the A330-300. This made the plane much more efficient and the A330-200 was much more popular than the A340-200.\n\nThe tail fin (called the rudder) of the A330-200 is a little bit taller than the 300 version to produce the same torque as the A330-300.\n\nIt has the same MTOW (Maximum Take-Off Weight) as the A330-300, so it can take more fuel than the A330-300. This means the A330-200 can fly further than the A330-300. It has a range of 12,500 km which is the same as 6,750 nmi.\n\nThe A330 has three engine choices for airlines to choose from: two General Electric CF6-80E engines, two Pratt & Whitney PW4000 engines or two Rolls-Royce Trent 700 engines.\n\nIn May 2009, Airbus said they have plans to make a version of the A330-200 that can take off with a higher weight. This is because they want to compete with Boeing and their 787-8 aircraft.\n\nIt will have a new MTOW of 238 tonnes and a new range of 13,300 km which is 7,200 nmi. Airbus thinks that the 787-8 will have a range of 6,720 nmi (12,450 km) which is about 1000 nmi (1,900 km) less than what Boeing said it would be.\n\nKorean Air will be the first airline to have the A330-200HGW. It ordered the aeroplanes on 27 February 2009 and will get the first one in 2010.\n\nBecause the Airbus A300-600F and Airbus A310F were getting old and companies had stopped ordering them, Airbus decided to make a new freighter plane to replace them. It started offering the aeroplane around the years 2000–2001. The aeroplane was talked about again at the 2006 Farnborough Airshow. Airbus got permission to sell the plane in January 2007 and the first plane came out of the factory on 20 October 2009. The aircraft first flew on 5 November 2009.\n\nIt can fly 64 tonnes of cargo over 4,000 nmi (7,400 km) or 69 tonnes over 3,200 nmi (5,930 km). The aeroplane was designed to use a new loading system that can use two different ways of holding cargo: containers or pallets (either smaller side by side pallets or larger single row pallets). \n\nIt has a new front landing gear system. Normally the A330-200 points slightly downwards when it is on the ground. This is good because the pilots can see the ground better but it makes loading the cargo harder. With this new gear, the aircraft sits straight so it is easier to load the cargo. It works by making the point where the plane attaches to the gear lower. This means that the nose has a bubble on the bottom to make sure the gear fits properly.\n\nAirbus has 67 orders for the A330-200F. The customer who ordered the most planes is Intrepid Aviation Group who have ordered 20.\n\nThis version is a tanker aircraft, which means that it carries a lot of jet fuel to give to other planes. It also has a few seats so that it can be used to carry passengers. It is used by the military.\n\nThe plane has been ordered by the Royal Australian Air Force (RAAF), the UK's Royal Air Force (RAF), the United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe plane was also offered to the U.S. Air Force as a replacement for some of their Boeing KC-135 'Stratotankers'. Eventually in 2002, they chose Boeing's offering: the KC-767. But this order was cancelled after a lot of political controversy. In 2006, the Air Force started again. Boeing again offered the KC-767 and Airbus teamed up with Northrop Grumman to make the KC-30. This time, they chose the KC-30 and renamed it the KC-45A. But Boeing complained that the ruling was not fair and the US Government Accountability Office agreed with Boeing. The bid was cancelled again. Northrop Grumman has decided not to offer the KC-45A again.\n\nThe A330-300 started working in 1993.It was the first type of A330. It competes with Boeing's 777-200 and 767-400ER. It was made as a replacement for the Airbus A300. It has a similar body to the A300-600, but it has new wings and systems.\n\nIt carries 295 passengers in three classes or 335 in two classes or 440 in one class. It can fly up to 5,650 nmi (10,500 km).\n\nIt has either two General Electric CF6-80E engines, two Pratt & Whitney PW4000 engines or two Rolls Royce Trent 700 engines. All the engines are ETOPS rated at ETOPS-180 which means that the A330-300 can fly up to 180 minutes away from an airport that it can land at.\n\n80 airlines or companies currently use the A330. The ones with the most A330s are Cathay Pacific from Hong Kong who have 32, Delta Air Lines from the United States of America who have 32, Emirates Airline from the United Arab Emirates who have 29, Qatar Airways from Qatar who have 29 and Air China and China Eastern Airlines who are both in China and have 20 each.\n\nThe A330 has had ten accidents: two hull-loss accidents (crashes where the plane cannot be fixed and cannot be used any more). There has been a total of 235 fatalities in the accidents.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "224936", "title": "Airbus A330"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224944", "text": "Germination\n\nGermination occurs when a spore or seed starts to grow. It is a term used in botany. When a spore or seed germinates, it produces a shoot or seedling, or (in the case of fungi) a hypha. The biology of spores is different from seeds. \n\nA \"spore\" germinates if and when conditions are right. It has a very limited lifespan. The method of spore-bearers, which are lower plants such as mosses, ferns and also fungi, is to produce vast numbers of spores, of which only a small percentage germinate.\n\n\"Seeds\" contain an embryo, a store of food (the endosperm), and a protective coat. Seed plants include Gymnosperms (such as conifers) and Angiosperms (such as flowering plants). Seeds can survive much longer than spores, sometimes for hundreds of years. The strategy of seed-bearing plants is to invest energy and material in the substance of seeds, and they have evolved more sophisticated methods of dispersal than just wind.\n\nSeeds do not germinate until their requirements are met, and these needs differ from species to species.\n\nThe requirements for fruits is the same as for seeds. A fruit is just a seed with one or more extra layers derived from parts of the flower.\n", "id": "224944", "title": "Germination"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224952", "text": "Fractal\n\nA fractal is any pattern, that when seen as an image, produces a picture, which when zoomed into will still make the same picture. It can be cut into parts which look like a smaller version of the picture that was started with. The word \"fractal\" was made by Benoît Mandelbrot in 1975 from the Latin word \"fractus\", which means \"broken\" or \"fractured\". A simple example is a tree that branches into smaller branches, and those branches into smaller branches and so on. Fractals are not only beautiful, but also have many practical applications.\n\nThere are many types of fractals, made in a large variety of ways. One example is the Sierpinski triangle, where there are an infinite number of small triangles inside the large one. Another example is the Mandelbrot set, named for Benoît Mandelbrot. The Sierpinksi triangle is constructed using patterns, but the Mandelbrot set is based on an equation.\n\nThere are also many natural examples of fractals in nature including trees, snowflakes, some vegetables and coastlines.\n\nThe Koch Curve is a simple example of a fractal. First, start with part of a straight line - called a straight line segment. Cut the line into 3 same-sized pieces. Get rid of the middle of those pieces, and put in the top part of a triangle with sides which are the same length as the bit to cut out. We now have 4 line segments which are touching at the ends. We can now do what we just did to the first segment to each of the 4 bits. We can now do the same thing again and again to all the bits we end up with. We now do this forever and look at what we end up with.\n\nThe length of the Koch Curve is infinity, and the area of the Koch Curve is zero. This is quite strange. A line segment (with dimension 1) could have a length of 1, but it has an area of 0. A square of length 1 and width 1 (with dimension 2) will have area 1 and length of infinity.\n\nSo, the Koch Curve seems to be bigger than something of dimension 1, and smaller than something of dimension 2. The idea of the similarity dimension is to give a dimension which gives a better idea of length or area for fractals. So, for a Koch Curve, we want a dimension between 1 and 2.\n\nThe Koch Curve can be cut into 4 pieces, each of which are formula_1 of the size of the original. We call the number of pieces that a fractal can be cut into formula_2, and we call the size difference formula_3. We put those into the equation:\n\nformula_4\n\nWhere formula_5 is the logarithm of a number. This number is the Hausdorff Dimension of the fractal. In the Koch Curve, this is formula_6 as we wanted.\n\nThe Koch Curve is one of the simplest fractal shapes, and so its dimension is easy to work out. Its similarity dimension and Hausdorff dimension are both the same. This is not true for more complex fractals.\n\nThe Koch snowflake (or Koch star) is the same as the Koch curve, except it starts with an equilateral triangle instead of a line segment.\n\nFractals have many applications e.g. in biology (lung, kidneys, heart rate variability, etc...), in earthquakes, in finance where it is related to the so called heavy tail distributions and in physics. This indicates that fractals should be studied to understand why fractals are so frequent in nature.\n\nSome fractals exist only for artistic reasons, but others are very useful. Fractals are very efficient shapes for radio antennas and are used in computer chips to efficiently connect all the components. Also, coastlines can be thought of as fractals.\n\n", "id": "224952", "title": "Fractal"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224956", "text": "Main line\n\nA main line is a railway line that is a main trunk route and connects large cities.\n", "id": "224956", "title": "Main line"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224957", "text": "Newark North Gate railway station\n\nNewark North Gate train station is a train station that serves the town of Newark in Nottinghamshire, England. It is served by east coast trains and East Midland trains. East coast does intercity trains from King's Cross to Leads, Newcastle, York, Edinburgh, and Glasgow.\n", "id": "224957", "title": "Newark North Gate railway station"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224970", "text": "Iyaz\n\nKeidran Jones (born 15 April 1987), better known by his stage name Iyaz, is a singer and rapper. His song \"Replay\" reached number two on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in 2009. In December 2009, \"Replay\" was number one on the \"Billboard\" Pop Songs chart. It also reached number one in the UK Singles Chart on January 10, 2010. He made a song with Miley Cyrus called \"Gonna Get This\" for \"Hannah Montana\".\n\nhttp://www.andpop.com/2009/11/08/iyaz-and-replay-climbing-to-the-top/\n\n", "id": "224970", "title": "Iyaz"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224996", "text": "Community (TV series)\n\nCommunity is an American comedy series on NBC. \"Community\" first aired on September 17, 2009, at 9:30 PM (EST). However, it was moved to 8:00 PM (EST) by its fourth episode. \n\nThe show is about the lives of students at a community college in the fictional city of Greendale, Colorado. \n\n\"Community\"'s sixth and final season concluded on June 2, 2015.\n\n", "id": "224996", "title": "Community (TV series)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224997", "text": "Orchestre de Paris\n\nThe Orchestre de Paris is a French orchestra based in Paris which was started in 1967. The orchestra's music director is Christoph Eschenbach and most of its concerts are performed at the Salle Pleyel.\n\n\n", "id": "224997", "title": "Orchestre de Paris"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=224999", "text": "Berlin Staatskapelle\n\nThe Staatskapelle Berlin is a German orchestra. It is the orchestra of the Berlin State Opera (Berliner Staatsoper Unter den Linden).\n\nThe history of the orchestra goes back to 1570, when the Elector of Brandenburg started an orchestra at his court. By the mid 18th century it was linked to the Royal Court Opera, started in 1742 by Frederick the Great. Famous musicians who have played with the orchestra include Carl Philipp Emanuel Bach, Franz Benda, and Johann Joachim Quantz\n\nGiacomo Meyerbeer became \"Kapellmeister\" (Music Director), from 1842. The orchestra started a series of public concerts. They were the first orchestra to play the first performances of many famous pieces of music by Richard Wagner, Felix Mendelssohn, and Otto Nicolai. \n\nThe orchestra's music director is called the \"Staatskapellmeister\". He is also the music director of the Berlin State Opera. Today the music director is Daniel Barenboim, who has had the job since 1992. In 2000 Barenboim was given the title of \"conductor for life\". Barenboim and the orchestra have made several recordings.\n\n", "id": "224999", "title": "Berlin Staatskapelle"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225000", "text": "Stephen Sondheim\n\nSteven Joshua Sondheim (born March 22, 1930) is an American composer and lyricist (he writes the words for songs).\n\nSondheim was born into a Jewish family in New York City and grew up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and later near Doylestown, Pennsylvania. He is openly gay.\n\nHe wrote the words for songs in \"\" and \"West Side Story\". Of American composers still living, he has won the most awards. He has:\n\nSondheim writes both the music and the words to his musicals.\nMany critics like his work, but some people do not like it. \"Sweeney Todd\" is very different from the music of Rodgers and Hammerstein.\n\n", "id": "225000", "title": "Stephen Sondheim"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225001", "text": "Berlin State Opera\n\nThe Berlin State Opera, known in Germany as Staatsoper Unter den Linden is a world famous German opera company. Its permanent home is the Opera House on the Unter den Linden boulevard in Berlin.\n\nThe opera house was opened on 7 December 1742. It was the beginning of a 250-year co-operation between the Staatsoper and the orchestra called Berlin Staatskapelle. Famous conductors and composers associated with the opera house include Gaspare Spontini, Giacomo Meyerbeer and Richard Strauss.\n\nOn 18 August 1843 the Linden Opera was destroyed by fire. The new building was built a year later. It was called Königliches Opernhaus (Royal Opera House), and it opened with a performance of Meyerbeer's \"Ein Feldlager in Schlesien\".\n\nIn 1821, the Berlin Opera gave the first performance of Weber's \"Der Freischütz\". In 1849, it gave the first performance of Otto Nicolai's \"The Merry Wives of Windsor\", conducted by the composer himself.\n\nAt the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, the Royal Court Opera, Berlin, had many famous conductors. They included Felix von Weingartner, Karl Muck, Richard Strauss, and Leo Blech.\n\nAfter the collapse of the German Empire in 1918, the Opera was renamed \"Staatsoper unter den Linden\" and the \"Königliche Kapelle\" became \"Kapelle der Staatsoper\".\n\nIn the 1920s, Wilhelm Furtwängler, Erich Kleiber, Otto Klemperer, Alexander von Zemlinsky, Bruno Walter \nconducted. In 1925, Alban Berg's \"Wozzeck\", was given its first performance conducted by Erich Kleiber with the composer in the audience.\n\nAfter having had many repairs and improvements, the Linden Opera reopened in April 1928 with a new production of \"Die Zauberflöte\". In the same year, the famous Russian bass Feodor Chaliapin and Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes with conductor Ernest Ansermet were guest performers. In 1930 Erich Kleiber conducted the first performance of Darius Milhaud's \"Christoph Columbus\".\n\nIn 1934, when symphonic pieces from Alban Berg's \"Lulu\" were performed by Kleiber, the Nazis created a scandal and Kleiber had to go into exile.\n\nWhen Hitler came to power all the Jews in the orchestra had to leave. Many went into exile, including the conductors Otto Klemperer and Fritz Busch. During the Third Reich, Robert Heger, Herbert von Karajan (1939-1945) and Johannes Schüler were the \"Staatskapellmeister\". \n\nIn 1945 The Lindenoper was once again destroyed on 3 February. The second rebuilding took a long time. From 1945, the opera company played in the former \"Admiralspalast\" (today's Metropoltheater). From 1949, the company served as state opera of the GDR. It moved back to its original home after the rebuilding in 1955. The newly rebuilt opera house was opened, again, with Wagner's \"Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg\".\n\nAfter the Berlin Wall was built in 1961, the Opera continued to perform music from the classical and romantic periods together with contemporary ballet and operas.\n\nAfter the Germany Reunification, the Linden Opera had links again with the operatic world. In the 1990s, the opera was officially renamed \"Staatsoper Unter den Linden\".\n\nIn 1992, the Argentine-Israeli conductor Daniel Barenboim was appointed Music Director. In 2000, the orchestra (according to its official website) gave Barenboim the title \"conductor for life.\" During the 2002 \"Festtage\", he led a Wagner cycle in ten parts.\n\n\n", "id": "225001", "title": "Berlin State Opera"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225020", "text": "Peramelemorphia\n\nThe order Peramelemorphia includes the bandicoots and bilbies: it equates approximately to the mainstream of marsupial omnivores. This small order of mammals consists of some lesser known marsupials, which are native to New Guinea and Australia.\n", "id": "225020", "title": "Peramelemorphia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225027", "text": "Vascular dementia\n\nVascular dementia is the second most common form of dementia after Alzheimer's disease. It is a type of dementia caused by problems in the supply of blood to the brain.\n\nBrain cells need a good supply of blood to stay healthy and function properly. The blood is delivered through a network of blood vessels called the vascular system. If the vascular system within the brain becomes damaged and blood cannot reach the brain cells, the cells will eventually die. This can lead to the onset of vascular dementia. \n", "id": "225027", "title": "Vascular dementia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225029", "text": "West End theatre\n\nWest End theatre refers to stage productions in the West End of London. It is like New York's Broadway, where musicals and plays are shown at number of theatres. In 2007, 13.6 million people went to see a show at the West End. The shows that were on in 2007 included: \"Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat\", \"The Sound of Music\", \"Dirty Dancing\", \"Billy Elliot\", \"Hairspray\", \"Spamalot\", \"Avenue Q\", \"Wicked\", \"Equus\", \"Macbeth\", \"King Lear\", \"Othello\" and \"Grease\".\n", "id": "225029", "title": "West End theatre"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225030", "text": "Ann Coulter\n\nAnn Coulter (born December 8, 1961) is from the United States. She is a writer and is known for her controversial opinions about politics. She was asked to go on television, radio and speaks at public and private events. Coulter has described herself as a \"polemicist\" or someone who tells the truth even if it will cause problems. She does not want to \"pretend to be impartial or balanced.\"\n", "id": "225030", "title": "Ann Coulter"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225031", "text": "West End\n\nWest End might mean:\n\n", "id": "225031", "title": "West End"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225032", "text": "No Child Left Behind Act\n\nThe No Child Left Behind Act is a United States law that was to help students meet higher standards. This law started during President George W. Bush's time in the White House. President Bush made the law official on January 8, 2002. Schools around the US now have to test their students. If they don't, the schools risk losing funds given to them by the federal government. Some parts of this rule include bilingualism standards. All students must be on at least a proficient level (B+) by the 2013-14 school year. \n\nSince the law started, Congress gave more money to schools from $42.2 billion in 2001 to $54.4 billion in 2007. No Child Left Behind received a 40.4% increase from $17.4 billion in 2001 to $24.4 billion. The funding for reading quadrupled from $286 million in 2001 to $1.2 billion.\n", "id": "225032", "title": "No Child Left Behind Act"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225035", "text": "Resource room\n\nResource room is a place where special education students attend daily classes. These students are usually included in the general classroom and just need more support. Students are taught individually and in small groups. The number of students in a resource room is at most five students per teacher. Mainstreaming in education typically includes this service. Students in separate classes generally do not need the resource room because all the support they need is in the self-contained classroom.\n\nSpecial education teachers in resource rooms focus on the goals set by an Individualized Education Program. These goals are based on the individual student's need to develop executive skills, complete their homework and behave. The programs can help students with language-based learning disabilities like dyslexia. Visuo-motor perception, arithmetic, spelling and overall self-perception improve after time in the resource room classroom. The small-group instructional model leads to achievement in students with a multitude of educational disabilities.\n\nTheir peers also benefit when the concepts they learned in general education are reinforced in resource rooms.\n\n", "id": "225035", "title": "Resource room"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225040", "text": "Peanut butter\n\nPeanut butter is a type of moist paste that is made of crushed roasted peanuts. There are two kinds of peanut butter: \"crunchy/chunky\" peanut butter and \"smooth/creamy\" peanut butter. It can be eaten, for example on bread, usually with jelly to make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich. Marcellus Gilmore Edson was the real inventor, not George Washington Carver.\n\nJanuary 24 is National Peanut Butter Day.\n\nPeanut butter can protect people from cardiovascular sickness. Peanut butter (and peanuts) have lots of protein, E, magnesium, folate, food fiber, and arginine. However, some people with peanut allergies can have a shock or allergic reaction from eating or smelling it, which has made some schools decide not to let their students eat peanut butter in their schools. Some oils put inside peanut butter to make it easier to spread can also make people have heart disease. Peanut butter can also carry salmonella and make people sick because of it.\n\n", "id": "225040", "title": "Peanut butter"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225042", "text": "War Memorial Opera House\n\nThe War Memorial Opera House in San Francisco, California is home to the second largest opera company in the United States. It was built in 1932 and seats 3123 people. Its interior is in the Beaux-Arts design.\n", "id": "225042", "title": "War Memorial Opera House"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225061", "text": "La Garde\n\nLa Garde is a city in the south of France. La Garde is the capital of the canton of La Garde\n\nLa Garde is on the east of Toulon between Marseille and Nice. It's area land is 15.54 km²\n", "id": "225061", "title": "La Garde"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225076", "text": "End–Ordovician extinction event\n\nThe End–Ordovician extinction event is the third-largest extinction event of the Phanerozoic eon. The Ordovician period followed the Cambrian and was followed by the Silurian. There were no living things on the land except for bacteria and perhaps some single-celled algae. The biota was almost entirely marine.\n\nThe extinction came in two steps, at the start and the finish of the \"Hirnantian\" stage, which was the last stage of the Ordovician. \n\nBasic mechanism: climate changes from very warm to very cold and back to very warm. Changes in ocean circulation were the results of the climate changes. Both benthic (ocean bottom) and pelagic fauna were faced with conditions they were unable to cope with.\n\nMore than 100 invertebrate families becam extinct in the End–Ordovician extinction event, and a total of almost half the genera. The brachiopods and bryozoans were decimated, along with many of the trilobite, conodont and graptolite families. \n\nThe cause was probably the rise and erosion of the Appalachian Mountains. The rise put much CO into the atmosphere, and the erosion took it out.\n\n", "id": "225076", "title": "End–Ordovician extinction event"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225084", "text": "Ningaloo Reef\n\nNingaloo Reef is one of the largest coral reefs in the world. It is off the North West Cape in Western Australia. It is about long. \n\nNingaloo has about 200 species of hard coral and 50 species of soft coral. More than 520 species of fish live on the reef. Species that can be found at the reef include whale sharks, manta rays, humpback whales, dugongs, and Potato Cod. There are also six of the world's seven sea turtles including the Green turtle, Loggerhead Sea Turtle, Hawksbill turtle and Flatback turtle. \n\nThe Ningaloo Reef Marine Park covers an area of about 5000 square kilometers. \n\nThe reef is popular with people from all over the world who come to go scuba diving and snorkeling.\n\n\n", "id": "225084", "title": "Ningaloo Reef"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225125", "text": "Codeshare agreement\n\nCodesharing is a type of partnership that airlines have. Airlines agree to sell each other's tickets on some routes. This means that both airlines sell more tickets.\n\nSometimes, airlines join groups (called alliances) which all agree to sell each other's tickets. For example, both United Airlines and Lufthansa are part of Star Alliance. This means that Lufthansa can sell tickets for United Airlines and United Airlines can sell Lufthansa's tickets.\n\nBecause airlines sell each other's tickets, some flights will have more than one flight number.\n", "id": "225125", "title": "Codeshare agreement"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225129", "text": "Le Pradet\n\nLe Pradet is a commune in the south of France.\n", "id": "225129", "title": "Le Pradet"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225133", "text": "Canton of La Garde\n\nThe Canton of La Garde is a French canton near Toulon, in the department of Var. It is made up of La Garde and Le Pradet.\n", "id": "225133", "title": "Canton of La Garde"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225143", "text": "Command responsibility\n\nCommand Responsibility is an idea that Military Officers are responsible for making sure that the soldiers under their command do not commit war crimes, and if they do, make sure that the soldiers involved are punished.\n\n", "id": "225143", "title": "Command responsibility"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225146", "text": "Nikos Sampson\n\nNikos Sampson (December 16, 1935 – May 9, 2001) was a Cypriot politician. He was the leader of Cyprus for eight days in 1974. He had been active in EOKA before Cyprus became independent from the United Kingdom. EOKA wanted Cyprus and Greece to become a single country, and fought with the Turks in Cyprus. Afterwards, he became active in EOKA-B, which was a continuation of EOKA. In 1974, EOKA-B overthrew the government of Cyprus, and chose Nikos Sampson as President. Soon afterward, Turkey invaded Cyprus, and Nikos Sampson resigned from office. Afterward, he was tried for treason, and sent to prison for twenty years. Nikos Sampson died in 2001.\n\n", "id": "225146", "title": "Nikos Sampson"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225156", "text": "Bitola\n\nBitola () is the second-largest city in the Republic of Macedonia. It is located in the southwestern part of the country, near the border with Greece.\n", "id": "225156", "title": "Bitola"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225158", "text": "Arlington County, Virginia\n\nArlington County is a county in Virginia. It has so many buildings that it looks like a city. It is one of the smallest counties in the United States by area. It is across the Potomac River from Washington, D.C., and parts of it were once part of Washington. 210,000 people live there. It where many U.S. government offices, including The Pentagon, are. It also the location of Arlington National Cemetery, which was built at the former plantation of Robert E. Lee. ANC is where John F. Kennedy and many American soldiers are buried. Several battles of the American Civil War were fought in and around Arlington.\n\nThe District of Columbia was made with land contributed by Virginia and Maryland. In 1846, Congress agreed to give the land south of the Potomac back to Virginia. Most of the returned land became Arlington.\n", "id": "225158", "title": "Arlington County, Virginia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225162", "text": "Roman law\n\nRoman law is the name used for a system of laws used by the Roman Empire. It started with the twelve tablets, , and ended with the law code ordered by . As such, Roman law is the foundation of most legal systems in Europe, and its former colonies, as well as Japan.\n", "id": "225162", "title": "Roman law"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225163", "text": "Flag of Arizona\n\nThe Flag of the State of Arizona has 13 rays of red and gold (the conquistador colors and of the flag of Spain) on the top half, representing the 13 first counties of Arizona (there are 15 counties today), as well as telling of Arizona's picturesque sunsets. There is a copper colored star in the center representing Arizona's copper-mining company. The rest of the flag is colored blue, representing liberty.\n\nIn 1910, Colonel Charles W. Harris, head of the Arizona National Guard, made a flag for the Arizona Rifle Team when they attend the National Matches at Camp Perry. Arizona had been the only team in past matches to compete without a flag.\n", "id": "225163", "title": "Flag of Arizona"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225175", "text": "Chef salad\n\nChef salad (sometimes called chef's salad) is a type of salad. It usually includes a bed of leaf vegetables or lettuce, which can be served with hard boiled eggs, strips of meat (such as ham, roast beef, or turkey), cheese, cucumbers, croutons, and tomatoes. Chef salad is usually topped with Thousand Island dressing, but can be served with any type of dressing.\n\nChef salad is thought to be invented by chef Victor Seydoux at the Hotel Buffalo in Buffalo, New York. Trying to save money, he started putting small slices of meat and cheese in salads for some of his customers. When his customers started to ask for their salad this way, it was added to the menu.\n", "id": "225175", "title": "Chef salad"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225176", "text": "Pinchas Zukerman\n\nPinchas Zukerman (, (born July 16, 1948 in Tel Aviv) is a famous Israeli violinist, violist, and conductor. He is widely thought of as one of the world’s greatest violinists. Since 1971 he has also conducted many orchestras.\n\nPinchas Zukerman was born in Tel Aviv. His parents were Jews who had survived the Nazi concentration camps and had moved from Poland to Israel in 1947. By the time he was eight he showed great musical promise and started to learn music at the Academy of Music in Tel Aviv. When the violinist Isaac Stern heard him play he was so impressed that he helped him to go to the Julliard School of Music in New York. There he studied with Ivan Galanian.\nIn 1967 Zukerman shared a joint first prize in the Leventritt International Competition with Kyung Wha Chung. Then Stern became ill and could not play in some concerts, so Zukerman played instead. This made him very famous.\n\nAfter hearing Daniel Barenboim conduct the English Chamber Orchestra he became very interested in conducting. He started to conduct orchestras while playing the solo parts of works by Bach and Vivaldi. This conducting (leading) from the concertmaster’s chair had been the tradition in the 17th and 18th centuries. In 1974 he conducted the English Chamber Orchestra. Then he got opportunities to conduct New York Philharmonic, the National Symphony, Boston Symphony, and Los Angeles Philharmonic orchestras. In the 1980s he was the musical director of the St Paul Chamber Orchestra. For many years he continued to appear as soloist with some of the best orchestras in the world. He won many awards, including two Grammy Awards. \nIn April 1998, he became music director of the National Arts Centre Orchestra in Ottawa. He took them on a tour of Europe in 1990.\n\nIn recent years Zukerman has worked hard to help young musicians. As music director of the National Arts Centre Orchestra, he started the Young Artists Program, a summer training program for talented young classical musicians. It soon became very popular, with students from all over the world.\n\nAlthough he had a lot of work in Ottawa he also found time to be music director of the Ilona Feher Music Center in Holon, Israel, which he started. He became chairman of the Pinchas Zukerman Performance Program at the Manhattan School of Music in New York City. He was also artist in residence of the Milwaukee Symphony Orchestra.\n\nIn 1968 he married Eugenia Rich. They had two daughters. Later they divorced. In 1985 he married the actress Tuesday Weld. They later divorced.\n\n", "id": "225176", "title": "Pinchas Zukerman"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225180", "text": "National Arts Centre Orchestra\n\nThe National Arts Centre Orchestra is an orchestra in Ottawa, Canada's capital. Since 1998 their conductor (musical director) has been Pinchas Zukerman. The orchestra was started in 1969. It has made more than 40 recordings and toured widely throughout the world. \n\n\n", "id": "225180", "title": "National Arts Centre Orchestra"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225192", "text": "Christian de Quincey\n\nChristian de Quincey, Ph.D., is an author and philosopher who teaches cosmology and spirituality at colleges in the United States and Europe. He is an internationally known author and speaker on consciousness. He is on the faculty of several U.S. universities and think tanks, and at Schumacher College, Devon, England. He has written 5 books on consciousness.\n\n", "id": "225192", "title": "Christian de Quincey"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225204", "text": "Velvet worm\n\nThe velvet worms (Onychophora — literally \"claw bearers\") are a minor panarthropod phylum. \n\nThere are two families and about 200 species. All living species live on land, in moist or wet tropical areas.\n\nThe two living families are the Peripatidae and the Peripatopsidae. They show a peculiar distribution, with the peripatids being mainly equatorial and tropical, while the peripatopsids are all found in what used to be Gondwana.\n\nThe segmented worm-like organisms have tiny eyes, \"fur\", antennae, multiple pairs of legs, and, slime glands. The group is thought to be related to arthropods. They prey on smaller animals such as insects, which they catch by squirting a sticky slime.\n\nFossils from the early Cambrian bear a striking resemblance to the velvet worms. These fossils, known as the lobopods, were marine. They were a grade from which arthropods, tardigrades, and Onychophora arose.<ref name=\"Cite doi|10.1038/nature13576\"></ref> They are found in the Cambrian, Ordovician (possibly), Silurian, and Pennsylvanian periods.\n\nHistorically, all fossil Onychophora and lobopods were lumped into the taxon Xenusia. However, few of the Cambrian fossils have features that definitely unite them with the Onychophora. The exceptions are \"Hallucigenia\" and \"Collinsium ciliosum\", which have distinctly onychophoran-like claws.\n", "id": "225204", "title": "Velvet worm"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225205", "text": "Tardigrade\n\nTardigrades ('water bears') are the members of the tactopod phylum Tardigrada, part of the superphylum Ecdysozoa. They are microscopic, water-dwelling, segmented animals. \n\nTardigrades were first described in 1773. Their name means \"slow stepper\". There are more than 1000 different species of tardigrade. \nTardigrades have a cylindrical shape with four segments, each with two legs. Each leg has little claws. The biggest adults may reach a body length of 1.2 mm, the smallest below 0.1 mm. Freshly hatched larvae may be smaller than 0.05 mm. Tardigrades feed on plant cells by penetrating the cell wall and eating what is inside. Some tardigrades are carnivores.\n\nTardigrades are eutelic, meaning all adult tardigrades of the same species have the same number of cells. Some species have as many as 40,000 cells in each adult, while others have far fewer.\n\nTardigrades can be found in many habitats: in moss, freshwater, the Himalayas, and the ocean. They are one of the few animals that can be found on the highest mountains and the deepest seas. About 83 percent of the species live on land, the other 17 percent live in water.\n\nTardigrades are able to live in environments that would kill most animals. In 2007, scientists discovered that some tardigrades were able to survive 10 days in outer space. Tardigrades can survive more than ten years without water. Tardigrates can survive a few hours in temperatures close to absolute zero and above boiling point.\n\nTardigrades can survive being frozen for over 30 years.\n", "id": "225205", "title": "Tardigrade"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225229", "text": "Bond (finance)\n\nA bond is a contract between two parties.\n\nCompanies or governments issue bonds because they need to borrow large amounts of money. They issue bonds and investors buy them (thereby giving the people who issued the bond money). \n\nBonds have a maturity date. This means that at some point, the bond issuer has to pay back the money to the investors. They also have to pay the investors a little bit more than they paid for the bond.\n\nBonds are usually traded through brokers and are part of a financial instrument group called Fixed Income.\nBanks and financial institutions offer loans on different terms against the security of assets.\n", "id": "225229", "title": "Bond (finance)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225287", "text": "Taki\n\nTaki () is an Israeli game which is an expansion of Crazy Eights. It is made by Shafir games. The game's creator is Haim Shafir. The game takes about 20 minutes, is for 2-10 players, and is for ages 5 and up. It is very popular in Israel. It is similar to the American game Uno. \n\nThe Taki cards consist of the colors red, blue, green, and yellow. The objective of the game is to get rid of all your cards before everyone else.\n", "id": "225287", "title": "Taki"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225302", "text": "Scissor-tailed Hummingbird\n\nThe Scissor-tailed Hummingbird (\"Hylonympha macrocerca\") is a species of hummingbird. It is found only in Venezuela. Its habitat is subtropical or tropical moist montane forests. It is by habitat loss. It was first listed as a Vulnerable species by the IUCN. But new research has shown it to be rarer than it was thought. Because of this, it was uplisted to \"Endangered status\" in 2008.\n", "id": "225302", "title": "Scissor-tailed Hummingbird"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225304", "text": "Greenish puffleg\n\nThe greenish puffleg (\"Haplophaedia aureliae\") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Colombia, Ecuador, and Panama. Its habitats are subtropical or tropical moist montanes and fairly degraded former forests.\n\n", "id": "225304", "title": "Greenish puffleg"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225306", "text": "Yellow journalism\n\nYellow journalism or the yellow press is a type of journalism that does not report much real news with facts. It uses shocking headlines that catch people's attention to sell more newspapers. Yellow journalism might include exaggerating facts or spreading rumors. \n\nYellow press newspapers have several columns and front-page headlines about different types of news, such as sports and scandals. They use bold layouts (with large illustrations and perhaps color), and stories reported using unnamed sources. The term was often used to talk about some large New York City newspapers around 1900 as they fought to get more readers than the other newspapers.\n\nIn 1941, Frank Mott said that there were five things that made up yellow journalism: \n\nThe term came from the American Gilded Age of the late 1800s with two newspaper owners who fought to get more readers and sell more newspapers than the other. These were Joseph Pulitzer's and the \"New York World\" and William Randolph Hearst with the \"New York Journal\". The most important part of this fight was from 1895 to about 1898. When people talk about \"yellow journalism\" in history, they are often talking about these years. \n\nBoth papers were accused of sensationalizing the news (making it seem much more important than it really was) in order to sell more newspapers, although the newspapers did serious reporting as well. The \"New York Press\" came up with the term \"Yellow Kid journalism\" in early 1897 after a then-popular comic strip, to talk about the newspapers of Pulitzer and Hearst, which both published versions of it during a circulation war. Ervin Wardman, publisher of the \"New York Herald\" (which was not \"yellow journalism\") came up with the term.\n\nJoseph Pulitzer bought the \"New York World\" in 1883 after making the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" the biggest daily newspaper in that city. Pulitzer tried to make the \"New York World\" fun to read, and filled his paper with pictures, games and contests that brought in new readers. Crime stories filled many of the pages, with headlines like \"Was He a Suicide?\" and \"Screaming for Mercy.\" Also, Pulitzer only charged readers two cents per issue but gave readers eight and sometimes 12 pages of information (the only other two cent paper in the city was never longer than four pages).\n\nWhile there were many sensational stories in the \"New York World\", they were by no means the only stories, or even the biggest ones. Pulitzer believed that newspapers were important and had a duty to make society better, and he tried to do this with his newspaper.\n\nJust two years after Pulitzer took it over, the \"World\" sold more copies than any other newspaper in New York. Part of this was because he was connected to the Democratic Party. Older publishers, who were jealous of Pulitzer's success, began saying bad things about the \"World\". They talked about how he had crime stories and stunts but ignored its more serious reporting. Charles Anderson Dana|Charles Dana, editor of the \"New York Sun\", attacked \"The World\" and said Pulitzer was \"deficient in judgment and in staying power.\"\n\nWilliam Randolph Hearst, a mining heir who bought the \"San Francisco Examiner\" from his father in 1887, noticed what Pulitzer was doing. Hearst read the \"World\" while studying at Harvard University. He decided to try to make the \"Examiner\" as bright as Pulitzer's paper. While he was in charge, the \"Examiner\" gave 24 percent of its space to crime, presenting the stories as morality plays, and put adultery and \"nudity\" (by 19th century standards) on the front page. A month after Hearst took over the paper, the \"Examiner\" ran this headline about a hotel fire:\nHUNGRY, FRANTIC FLAMES. They Leap Madly Upon the Splendid Pleasure Palace by the Bay of Monterey, Encircling Del Monte in Their Ravenous Embrace From Pinnacle to Foundation. Leaping Higher, Higher, Higher, With Desperate Desire. Running Madly Riotous Through Cornice, Archway and Facade. Rushing in Upon the Trembling Guests with Savage Fury. Appalled and Panic-Striken the Breathless Fugitives Gaze Upon the Scene of Terror. The Magnificent Hotel and Its Rich Adornments Now a Smoldering heap of Ashes. The \"Examiner\" Sends a Special Train to Monterey to Gather Full Details of the Terrible Disaster. Arrival of the Unfortunate Victims on the Morning's Train — A History of Hotel del Monte — The Plans for Rebuilding the Celebrated Hostelry — Particulars and Supposed Origin of the Fire.\"\n\nHearst could be over the top in his crime coverage. One of his early stories, about a \"band of murderers\", attacked the police for forcing \"Examiner\" reporters to do their work for them. But while doing these things, the \"Examiner\" also increased its space for international news, and sent reporters out to uncover corruption and inefficiency in the city government. In one story, \"Examiner\" reporter Winifred Black went into a San Francisco hospital as a patient and discovered that the women there were treated with \"gross cruelty\". The entire hospital staff was fired the morning the story was printed.\n\nWith the \"Examiner\"' having success by the early 1890s, Hearst began looking for a New York newspaper to buy, and bought the \"New York Journal\" in 1895, a newspaper that sold for oen penny which Pulitzer's brother Albert had sold to a Cincinnati publisher the year before.\n\nAfter noticing what Pulitzer had done by keeping his newspaper at two cents, Hearst made the \"Journal's\" only cost one cent, while providing as much information as rival newspapers. This worked, and as the \"Journal's\" had 150,000 people subscribe to it, Pulitzer cut his price to a penny, hoping to make Hearst (who was subsidized by his family's fortune) run out of money. Hearst then hired many people who were working for \"World\" in 1896. While most sources say that Hearst simply offered more money, Pulitzer — who had grown more abusive to his employees — had become a very difficult man to work for, and many \"World\" employees were willing to switch newspapers just to get away from him.\n\nAlthough the competition between the \"World\" and the \"Journal\" was fierce, the newspapers had a lot in common. Both were Democratic, both took the side of organized labor and immigrants (unlike publishers like the \"New York Tribune's \"Whitelaw Reid, who blamed their poverty on moral defects), and both spent a lot of money making their Sunday publications, which were like weekly magazines, going beyond just daily journalism.\n\nTheir Sunday entertainment features included the first color comic strip pages, and some think that the term yellow journalism originated there, while as noted above, the \"New York Press\" left the term it invented undefined. \"Hogan's Alley,\" a comic strip about a bald child in a yellow nightshirt (nicknamed The Yellow Kid), became very popular when cartoonist Richard F. Outcault began drawing it in the \"World\" in early 1896. When Hearst hired Outcault away, Pulitzer asked artist George Luks to continue drawing the strip with his characters, giving the city two Yellow Kids. The use of \"yellow journalism\" as a term for over-the-top sensationalism in the U.S. apparently started with more serious newspapers commenting how far \"the Yellow Kid papers\" went.\n\nPulitzer and Hearst are often credited (or blamed) for drawing the nation into the Spanish-American War with their sensationalism. However, most of Americans did not live in New York City, and the decision makers who did live there probably read less sensationalist newspapers like the \"Times,\" \"The Sun\" or the \"Post.\" The most famous example of the exaggeration is the story, which probably is not actually true, that artist Frederic Remington sent Hearst a telegram to tell him that not much was going on in Cuba and \"There will be no war.\" Hearst responded \"Please remain. You furnish the pictures and I'll furnish the war.\" The story (a version of which appears in the Hearst-inspired Orson Welles film \"Citizen Kane\") first showed up in the memoirs of reporter James Creelman in 1901, and there is no other source for it.\n\nBut Hearst did want the United States to go to war after a rebellion broke out in Cuba in 1895. Stories about Cubans being good people and Spain treating Cuba badly soon showed up on his front page. While the stories were probably not very accurate, the newspaper readers of the 19th century did not expect, or necessarily want, his stories to be pure nonfiction. Historian Michael Robertson has said that \"Newspaper reporters and readers of the 1890s were much less concerned with distinguishing among fact-based reporting, opinion and literature.\"\n\nPulitzer, although he did not have Hearst's resources, kept the story on his front page. The yellow press published a lot about the revolution (much of which was not quite true), but conditions on Cuba were bad enough. The island was in a bad economic depression, and Spanish general Valeriano Weyler, sent to crush the rebellion, herded Cuban peasants into concentration camps leading hundreds of Cubans to their deaths. Having fought for a fight for two years, Hearst took credit for the conflict when it came: A week after the United States declared war on Spain, he ran \"How do you like the \"Journal's\" war?\" on his front page. In fact, President William McKinley never read the \"Journal\", and newspapers like the \"Tribune\" and the \"New York Evening Post\". Also, journalism historians have noted that yellow journalism mostly only happened in New York City, and that newspapers in the rest of the country did not do it. The \"Journal\" and the \"World\" were not among the top ten sources of news in regional papers, and their stories did not catch people's attention outside New York City. \n\nHearst sailed to Cuba, when the invasion began, as a war correspondent, providing sober and accurate accounts of the fighting. Creelman later praised the work of the reporters for writing about how Spain treated Cuba, arguing, \" no true history of the war . . . can be written without an acknowledgment that whatever of justice and freedom and progress was accomplished by the Spanish-American war was due to the enterprise and tenacity of \"yellow journalists,\" many of whom lie in unremembered graves.\"\n\nHearst was a well-known Democrat who promoted William Jennings Bryan for president in 1896 and 1900 (Bryan did not win either election). He later ran for mayor and governor and even tried to get nominated for president, but his reputation was hurt in 1901 after columnist Ambrose Bierce and editor Arthur Brisbane published separate columns months apart that suggested that President William McKinley be assassinated. When McKinley was shot on September 6, 1901, critics accused Hearst's Yellow Journalism of driving Leon Czolgosz to the deed. Hearst did not know of Bierce's column and claimed to have pulled Brisbane's after it ran in a first edition, but the incident would haunt him for the rest of his life and all but destroyed his dream to be president.\n\nPulitzer, haunted by what had happened,\" returned the \"World\" to its crusading roots as the new century dawned. By the time of his death in 1911, the \"World\" was a widely-respected publication, and would remain a leading progressive paper until its demise in 1931.\n\n\n", "id": "225306", "title": "Yellow journalism"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225311", "text": "Volkswagen Type 2\n\nVolkswagen Type 2 is a van made by Volkswagen. They are often painted bright colors. They are also called the Transporter, Kombi, Bus (US) or Camper (UK). \n", "id": "225311", "title": "Volkswagen Type 2"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225319", "text": "Lavatory – Lovestory\n\nLavatory – Lovestory is a short movie that is about a lavatory attendant that finds a bunch of flowers in her tip jar (a tin where customers give her money as a reward for a good job). The movie was nominated for an Academy Award in the 81st Annual Academy Awards and won many awards at movie festivals.\n", "id": "225319", "title": "Lavatory – Lovestory"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225333", "text": "University of Notre Dame\n\nThe University of Notre Dame (or simply Notre Dame) is a private Catholic university near South Bend, Indiana. It was founded in 1842 by Father Edward Sorin of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Sorin was also the school's first president. In the beginning, it was an all-male school. In 1972 females were admitted. The university has five colleges and one professional school. Notre Dame offers master's degrees and doctoral degrees. The university's undergraduates live on campus in single-gendered residence halls. Alumni are located around the world. The school's athletic teams are known as the Fighting Irish.\n\n\n", "id": "225333", "title": "University of Notre Dame"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225340", "text": "Campus\n\nA campus is land where a college or university buildings are placed. Campuses can have libraries, lecture halls, and parks. Campuses can consist of both academic (\"school and studying-related\") buildings and non-academic buildings.\n", "id": "225340", "title": "Campus"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225370", "text": "Pleasant Grove Township, Des Moines County, Iowa\n\nPleasant Grove Township is a township in the County of Des Moines in Iowa. The population is 457 with 227 males and 230 females.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "225370", "title": "Pleasant Grove Township, Des Moines County, Iowa"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225380", "text": "Blocked\n\nBlocked is a game for the iPhone and iPod Touch that is like a puzzle. \n\nThe player has to move around gray blocks until a blue rock is free and the blocks can only go left and right or up and down. The game has many challenges and levels. There are five difficulty levels in Blocked: easy, medium, hard, harder, and hardest.\n\nJames Savager, a reviewer on Macworld, said that the game is the perfect puzzle game for those quick moments during the day when you’ve got some time to kill and a puzzle to solve. Lew Reed, a reviewer on Slide To Play, said the game being easy to play is crucial to the game's success.\n", "id": "225380", "title": "Blocked"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225387", "text": "Oliver Goldsmith\n\nOliver Goldsmith (10 November 1730 – 4 April 1774) was a writer, poet, and physician famous for his novel, \"\"(1776). He first successful literary work was \"The Traveller\" (1764), a poem about British rule. Like Jonathan Swift, Goldsmith society, but he did not use satire like Swift. Goldsmith's greatest poem, \"The Deserted Village\" (1770), was a sad poem about how country life was being destroyed by landowners. The same theme is inside \"The Vicar of Wakefield\". Goldsmith's biggest work at that time was \"The Citizen of the World\" (1762), a collection of soft-satire essays on English life seen by an imaginary Chinese visitor. He also wrote two plays, \"The Good Natured Man\" (1768), and \"She Stoops to Conquer (1773).(He is also thought to have written the classic children's story, \"The History of Little Goody Two-Shoes\".)\n\nIt is not known for sure when he was born. Most people now think that he was born in 10 November 1730. He was the second son of Charles Goldsmith, curate of Kilkenny West in West Meath in Ireland. In 1745 he went to Trinity College Dublin. He quickly spent all his money by gambling, which he became to. After spending some time at the Universities of Edinburgh and Leyden he spent 1755 – 1756 travelling in Europe, where it is said that he lived by playing the flute. Before starting to write he worked in London as a doctor's helper, a doctor, and a school . He died in 1774 and was buried in Temple Church.\n\n", "id": "225387", "title": "Oliver Goldsmith"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225405", "text": "Sea spider\n\nSea spiders are marine arthropods of the class Pycnogonida. \n\nThere are about 1,300 species of sea spiders, which are found around the world. Sea spiders are found in all oceans, including the Mediterranean Sea, Caribbean Sea, and the Arctic Ocean. Species found in coastal waters are usually small and have a leg span of about 1 inch (2.5 cm), those living at great depths, up to 24 inches (60 cm).\n\nSea spiders are not true spiders, or even arachnids. Their traditional classification as chelicerates would put them closer to true spiders than to other well-known arthropod groups, such as insects or crustaceans. \n\nHowever, recent genetic evidence suggests they may be an ancient sister group to all other living arthropods.\n\nThe sea spider has a small, narrow body. It usually has four pairs of long, thin legs attached to the abdomen. Attached to the head there are usually three other pairs of appendages—a pair called chelicerae, used for grasping food; a pair of sensory projections called palps; and a pair of egg-carrying legs (sometimes underdeveloped or absent in the female). The female lays round masses of eggs on the egg-carrying legs of the male, which carries the eggs until they hatch.\n\nOn top of its head, the sea spider has a knobby projection bearing two, three, or four simple eyes. The head ends in a snout with a sucking mouth. Sea spiders feed by sucking the body juices of such marine animals as sea anemones, sponges, and sea squirts.\n", "id": "225405", "title": "Sea spider"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225418", "text": "Caving\n\nCaving (or spelunking) is the hobby or recreation of exploring caves. People who explore caves are called spelunkers.\n\nWise spelunkers explore in groups, to prevent being lost or stranded in a cave. Spelunkers need reliable equipment, because the descent into a cave is like mountain climbing in the opposite direction. Basic spelunking equipment is similar to what mountain climbers use. Strong ropes make climbing possible and special tools attach ropes to cave walls. Special footwear makes it easier to explore hard to reach places, and hard hats protect spelunkers from falling rocks above. Caves are extremely dark, so spelunkers have to carry at least three light sources (like torches and flares). One torch attaches to a spelunker's helmet so it is with him or her at all times. Caves are also very cold, so most spelunkers wear heavy clothing for warmth.\n\nSpelunkers tie their ropes with different kinds of knots, like the \"farmer's hitch knot\" and the \"alpine butterfly knot\". Spelunkers choose different knots for different purposes. Some knots work well to hold people as they climb. Other knots are best for tying ropes together.\n\nCaving today has become a hobby for many different reasons. Some cavers are interested in conservation. Others are interested in gathering hard data about caves (called speleology). Geologists explore caves for the purpose of learning about the formation of rocks. But, for most of the rest, the purpose of caving is just to have fun.\n\nCaves can generally be explored during any season of the year. Most caves remain at the same temperature year round. The common rules of thumb apply:\n\n", "id": "225418", "title": "Caving"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225425", "text": "Poygan, Wisconsin\n\nPoygan is a town in Winnebago County of the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 1,037 people were living in Poygan as of the 2000 census. Poygan has a total area of 41.9 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.\n", "id": "225425", "title": "Poygan, Wisconsin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225440", "text": "Winnebago County, Wisconsin\n\nWinnebago County is a county of the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 156,763 people were living in Winnebago County as of the census of 2000. The county seat of Winnebago County is Oshkosh.\n\nWinnebago County has an area of , says the U.S. Census Bureau.\n\n\nThe following is a list of cities, villages, and towns found in Winnebago County:\n\n\n", "id": "225440", "title": "Winnebago County, Wisconsin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225483", "text": "Chiton\n\nChitons are primitive marine molluscs in the class Polyplacophora (formerly the class Amphineura). There are 900 to 1,000 living species of chitons. Their size ranges from 0.5 to 30 cm in length; most are quite small. \n\nAll the living species are in the subclass Neoloricata, and so may be called 'loricates'. Popular names are \"sea cradles\" or \"coat-of-mail shells\". \n\nThey have a single shell that sticks to rocks, like a limpet. The shell is made of hard plates that fit tightly together, overlapping one another. The shell plates are surrounded by a structure known as a 'girdle'.\n\nPolyplacophora means \"many plates\". The plates refer to the shell, which is made of aragonite, a calcium carbonate mineral. The shell is quite flexible, and the chiton can even roll into a ball. The chiton has eight plates, and underneath the plates is a muscular foot that moves the chiton over rocks and other structures, both in and out of the water. It also has a tongue-shaped structure called the radula, which has many rows of 17 teeth each. Some use it to scrape algae off rocks, while others are carnivorous, catching tiny zooplankton and other small animals that live in shallow water.\n\nChitons can be less than an inch long, or up to a foot long. They come in many different colors: black, red, pink, and even blue. The shell might be shiny or dull, or smooth, hairy, scaly, or spiny depending on the species.\n\nIf a chiton was picked up and turned over, there would be no eyes, legs, or arms. There would only be a wide foot with a radula that it uses for scraping surfaces. Its mantle is right under the shell, with the lowest part of the mantle coming out under the edge of the shell to help its foot grip the surfaces on which it clings or slides along. The part of the mantle which sticks out is called the \"girdle\". Like the moon snail, the girdle may extend out over the bottom part of the shell covering the bottom half of the chiton. \n\nMost chitons are \"nocturnal\", so they feed at night, and hide under rocks during the day. Their main habitat is the intertidal zone. They live on hard surfaces, such as on or under rocks, or in rock crevices. Some species live quite high in the intertidal zone and are exposed to the air and light for long periods. Others live subtidally. A few species live in deep water, as deep as 6,000 m (about 20,000 ft).\n\nChitons have a relatively good fossil record, stretching back 400 million years to the Devonian. Before this, some organisms have been interpreted (tentatively) as stem-group polyplacophora; the record of polyplacophora stretches back to the Upper Cambrian.\n\n\"Kimberella\" and \"Wiwaxia \" of the Precambrian and Cambrian may be related to ancestral polyplacophora. \"Matthevia\" is a late Cambrian polyplacophoran preserved as individual pointed valves, and sometimes considered to be a chiton. The polyplacophorans may have formed when an aberrant monoplacophoran was born with multiple centres of calcification, rather than the usual one. Selection acted on the resultant conical shells to form them to overlap into protective armour. Their original cones are homologous with the tips of the plates of modern chitons.\n\n", "id": "225483", "title": "Chiton"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225491", "text": "Sand dollar\n\nThe Sand dollars, are species of flattened, burrowing sea urchins belonging to the order Clypeasteroida. \"Echinarachnius parma\", the Common Sand Dollar, is widespread in the Northern Hemisphere, from the intertidal zone to considerable depths. Sand dollars can be found in temperate and tropical zones, but not in Great Britain.\n\nAll sand dollars have a rigid skeleton known as a \"test\". This is the typical white disk found washed up on beaches. The living animals have a skin of movable spines on the test. Movement is done by the action of the spines. Like other sea urchins, sand dollars have five paired rows of pores. The pores are arranged in a petal-like pattern. These pores are perforations in the endoskeleton through which the tube feet, used in gas exchange, project from the body.\n\nLiving sand dollars have small spines covering its entire body. They are softer and much shorter than those of the sea urchin. Like all echinoderms, sand dollars have tube feet. They are not used to move around, but simply to breathe. The sand dollar's tube feet actually stick out of the top of the sand dollar. On a sand dollar test, there is usually a pattern that looks like the petals of a flower. That pattern is made up of many tiny holes, and it is through these holes that the sand dollar's tube feet came out when it was alive.\n\nA sand dollar uses its tiny spines to move around, and to dig into the sand. It often does this to bury itself in the sand. Sometimes, a sand dollar will only partially bury itself in the sand, and ends up poking up from the sand, standing on its side.\n\nOn the underside of a sand dollar, there is a star pattern spreading out from the center where the mouth is. This star pattern is made up of that are called \"food grooves\". Sand dollars filter sand and water, catching plankton and other things on their spines. Then, with cilia, the spines move the food into a food groove, and the food travels down the food groove to the mouth. Its food consists of crustacean larvae, small copepods, diatoms, algae and detritus.\n\nThe sand dollars are the most specialised sea urchins. All their features are adaptations for burrowing. They live just beneath the sand, either flat or at an angle. At an angle they keep the edge facing the oncoming currents, presumably to catch food. This excellent habitat has been taken up by other groups of sea urchins. The heart urchins, another order, are even more effective in burrowing. Sand dollars can live for up to 160 years.\n\nMost living sand dollars have dark colours, like brown or purple. Their darker color helps them stay camouflaged, easily hiding in the sand or mud or on the sea floor. The tests of sand dollars do not have bristles and tube feet, and because of the sun, they usually become white.\n\n", "id": "225491", "title": "Sand dollar"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225516", "text": "Goole (disambiguation)\n\nGoole can be any of the following:\n", "id": "225516", "title": "Goole (disambiguation)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225517", "text": "Babcock, Wisconsin\n\nBabcock is an unincorporated community in Wood County of the state of Wisconsin in the United States. The ZIP code of Babcock is 54413.\n", "id": "225517", "title": "Babcock, Wisconsin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225522", "text": "Green County, Wisconsin\n\nGreen County is a county that is found in the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 33,647 people live in Green County as of the 2000 census. The county seat of Green County is Monroe.\n\nGreen County has an area of 585 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.\n\n\nThe following is a list of the cities, towns, villages, and unincorporated communities that are found in Green County:\n\n\n", "id": "225522", "title": "Green County, Wisconsin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225544", "text": "Kefalonia\n\nKefalonia (and Kephalonia or Cephalonia) is a Greek island in Ionian Sea. It is the largest of Ionian islands and the sixth largest Greek island after Crete, Euboea, Lesbos, Rhodes and Chios. Its area is 781 square meter and its population is 36,404 inhabitants according to 2001 Greek census.\n\nKefalonia has got the highest mountain of Ionian islands. The mountain is named Ainos and its altitude is 1628 meter. The biggest town in island is Argostoli which is the capital of the Kefallonia prefecture. The second biggest town is Lixouri which is located opposite Argostoli. Beside Kefalonia is the island Ithaca the place of birth of ancient hero Odysseus. Some archaeologists believes that the place of birth of Odysseus is Kefalonia.\n\nKefalonia has many beautiful beaches and it is one of the most popular tourist destinations. The most popular beach in island is Myrtos which is located in the north-west of the island. Kefalonia has beautiful natural environment with many forests mainly on Ainos mountain. Also in Kefalonia there is a famous cave-lake which is named Melissani and is located in the east of island \n", "id": "225544", "title": "Kefalonia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225554", "text": "Tommy Lee\n\nTommy Lee (born October 3, 1962) is an American musician and drummer for the band Mötley Crüe. In 1999 he started a band called Methods of Mayhem. They have released two albums. He has also released two solo albums.\n\nHe was married to Pamela Anderson from 1995 until they divorced in 1998. They had two sons, Brandon and Dylan.\n", "id": "225554", "title": "Tommy Lee"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225565", "text": "Billy Bishop\n\nWilliam Avery \"Billy\" Bishop (8 February 1894 – 11 September 1956) was a Canadian flying ace from World War I. He won 72 fights, making him the top Canadian flying ace.\n", "id": "225565", "title": "Billy Bishop"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225569", "text": "2050s\n\nThe 2050s decade will begin on January 1, 2050 and will end on December 31, 2059. It is the sixth decade of the 21st century and the 3rd millennium.\n\n\n", "id": "225569", "title": "2050s"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225571", "text": "Kim Mitchell\n\nJoseph Kim Mitchell (born July 10, 1952) is a Canadian guitarist. Mitchell was the singer and guitarist for the band Max Webster and now hosts a radio show for CILQ-FM (Q107) in Toronto.\n\n", "id": "225571", "title": "Kim Mitchell"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225580", "text": "Ot en Sien\n\nOt en Sien (Ot and Sien) are two little children who appear in a series of stories which were written in the Dutch language more than a hundred years ago. Ot (short for “Otto”) is a little boy and Sien (pronounced like the English word “seen”), whose name may be short for “Francine”, is the little girl who lives next door. Although they are now very old-fashioned, the books are still popular in Holland. They were written in rhyme and were illustrated with colourful pictures.\n\nThe author of the stories was called Hendricus Scheepstra. The ideas for the stories were given to him by Jan Ligthart. Cornelis Jetses made the illustrations.\n\nThe stories are set in Drenthe, which is in the north-eastern part of the Netherlands. Drenthe was a very poor part of the country, but Ot and Sien live in a nice house and are quite well-off. They are often seen playing in the garden with their toys which include a wooden horse on wheels and a doll in a dolly’s pushchair. The cat is often in the picture. They are also seen at school.\n\nThe authors wrote the stories to show a happy family life. Everyone is very friendly in the book, and strangers help them when they get lost in the street. The family have a servant who helps in the house.\n\nThe stories were widely read by children in schools in the Netherlands until after the Second World War. By then they had become very old-fashioned. The daily life of Ot and Sien seemed to belong to a time long ago in history. Hardly any Dutch children now live in a family with a servant. No Dutch child nowadays goes for a walk dressed in sailor’s costume with a father who wears a cloak and hat. The books are no longer read in schools, but they continue to be popular with Dutch people at home. In 2004, one hundred years after the first book was written, a special exhibition about Ot and Sien was held.\n\nThere is a statue to Ot and Sien in The Hague, made in 1930.\n\nIn the Dutch language there are expressions which refer to Ot and Sien.\n", "id": "225580", "title": "Ot en Sien"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225581", "text": "Pulaski, Wisconsin\n\nPulaski is a village in the Brown, Oconto, and Shawano counties of the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 3,060 people were living in Pulaski as of the 2000 census. The parts of Pulaski that are in the Oconto and Brown Counties are part of the Green Bay metropolitan area. Pulaski has an area of 2.5 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.\n\n", "id": "225581", "title": "Pulaski, Wisconsin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225585", "text": "Norah Jones\n\nNorah Jones is an American singer and pianist. Her first album, \"Come Away with Me\" was released in 2002. It was a mix of contemporary jazz, folk, and country music. The album won five Grammy Awards in 2003. She released her second album, \"Feels Like Home\" in 2004, which sold over a million copies in its first week of its release. \"Sunrise\" won Best Female Pop Vocal Performance at the 2005 Grammy Awards. Her third album, \"Not Too Late\" was released in 2007. That year Jones also acted in a movie for the first time. The movie, \"Blueberry Nights\", had a song by Jones on its soundtrack. In 2009, \"The Fall\" was released. According to Billboard, Jones is the 60th highest-selling artist of the 2000s. In 2011 Jones sung on Seth MacFarlane's first album. Jones' fifth album \"Little Broken Hearts\" was released in 2012. It was produced by Danger Mouse. On November 25, 2013 an album Jones made with Billie Joe Armstrong called \"Foreverly\" was released.\n\nJones was born Geetali Norah Jones Shankar in 1979 in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, New York, to Indian sitar player Ravi Shankar and American concert producer Sue Jones. When Jones was sixteen she changed her name to Norah Jones.\n\n\n", "id": "225585", "title": "Norah Jones"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225587", "text": "Exhibition\n\nAn exhibition is an organized event in which a collection of special objects can be viewed by the public. The objects are often brought together from many places for the period of the exhibition. The objects on show are called exhibits.\n\nMuseums often organize special exhibitions, such as paintings by a famous painter. These paintings will mostly be “on loan”, i.e. specially borrowed from other museums. Exhibitions can be about anything. They may be to do with art, or they can also be science exhibitions.\n\nSome exhibitions show things which can be bought. Firms exhibit the things they have made, hoping to encourage business. These exhibitions are called trade fairs. They are sometimes called expositions or expos. They may be open to the public, but others are just for invited business people.\n\n", "id": "225587", "title": "Exhibition"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225590", "text": "Come Away with Me\n\nCome Away with Me is the first album by American jazz singer Norah Jones. It was released on February 26, 2002 on Blue Note Records. The main genre is considered contemporary jazz. The album is actually contemporary jazz with some country, folk music, and pop. Some jazz musicians do not think that the album is actually jazz, because of the changes Norah Jones made to some of the jazz songs she covered.\n\n\"Come Away with Me\" reached number 1 on the Billboard 200 chart and won eight Grammy Awards. It sold over 10 million copies in the first three years of its release. It is Norah Jones' best-selling album, and the best-selling jazz album of all time.\n\nGrammy Awards\n", "id": "225590", "title": "Come Away with Me"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225605", "text": "Ruben Bierer\n\nRuben Bierer (Dr. \"Rubin Bierer\", often: \"Reuben Bierer\"; * about 1845 in Lviv; † 1931 ibid.) was a doctor in Sofia and one of the first pioneers of the Jewish nationalism and one of the first active zionists in Galicia and Bulgaria, adherent of Hovevei Zion in Galicia, Austria and Bulgaria.\n\nIn 1867 he was in Lviv a co-founder of the first Jewish-political association of Austria-Hungary, \"Shomer Israel\". As an opponent against Polish assimilation of the Jews he established for the 1873 elections of the Reichsrat a Jewish-ruthenian electoral alliance. In 1879 he separated from the \"Shomer Israel\" and went to Vienna for the purpose of medical studies where he – together with Peretz Smolenskin – found the Jewish-political association \"Ahavath Zion\" (for the reason of colonisation of the holy land).\n\nIn 1882 he was a cofounder of the Viennese \"Kadima\" Studentenverbindung. In 1883 he returned to Lviv where he founded the first Jewish-national association of the Austrian east, \"Miqra Kodesh\".\n\nIn 1885 he went to Serbia, in 1900 he returned to Lviv where he successless tried to reactivate the \"Shomer Israel\". \n\nNathan Birnbaum coined the word zionism about the year 1890. But he is not the creator of this word, it was already in use, e.g. you can find in a letter of Ruben Bierer from the 9th December 1888 the expression \"zionist brother's greeting\". The word \"zionist\" is found already in the year 1877 in an in Roumanian written pamphlet (annual report of the order \"Zion\" in Bucharest). \n", "id": "225605", "title": "Ruben Bierer"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225607", "text": "Hezekiah\n\nHezekiah (meaning God will strengthen) or Ḥizqiyyāhu (Hebrew), also translated as Ḥizkiyyahu (and sometimes as Ezekias (Greek), Khizkiyahu, Yəḥizqiyyāhu, Y'khizkiyahu), was a king of Judah that appears in the book of 2 Chronicles, chapters 18 to 32, and the book of 2 Kings chapters 18 to 20. He was one of the few kings who is compared favorably with David, and is unique for his trust in the Lord: \"There was no one like him among all the kings of Judah, either before him or after him. He held fast to the LORD and did not cease (stop) to follow him\" (NIV).\n\nHezekiah was the son of Judah's King Ahaz, and is best known for turning his people away from the sins of his father Ahaz, restoring worship in the temple, and having his life made 15 years longer. The Book of 2 Chronicles tells more about Hezekiah than any other king after Solomon, and suggests that he is a \"second Solomon\" in his celebration of the Passover, his wealth, his honor, and his land.\n\nToward the end of his reign, he became very sick and close to death. He prayed to the Lord, who healed him miraculously. The king of Babylon heard about it and sent men with a letter and gift to Hezekiah. Because Hezekiah was proud of his riches, he showed all of his treasures to the visitors. The prophet Isaiah predicted that it all would later be taken by the Babylonians. His prediction came true.\n\n", "id": "225607", "title": "Hezekiah"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225612", "text": "Tine Thing Helseth\n\nTine Thing Helseth (Norwegian:ˈtiːnɛ tɪŋ hɛlsɛt; born 1987 in Oslo) is a Norwegian trumpet soloist who specialises in playing classical music.\n\nHelseth began playing trumpet when she was seven years old and stuides at the Barratt Due Institute of Music in Oslo. She has studied under both Heidi Johanessen (a member of the Norwegian National Opera Orchestra) and, since 2002, Arnulf Naur Nilsen (member of the Oslo Philharmonic).\n\n\nHelseth has played concerts with such orchestras as the Wiener Symphoniker, Beethoven Academie, Capella Cracowiensis, The Norwegian Chamber Orchestra, Shanghai Symphony Orchestra, Slovenian Radio Symphony Ljubljana, Oslo Camerata, Camerata Nordica, Württemberg Philharmonic, the Trondheim Soloists, Norwegian symphony orchestras, Norwegian Army bands and other brass and wind groups.\n\nShe has appeared at many different music festivals, including the Bergen International Festival, Kissinger Summer Festival and Usedomer Music Festival.\n\nShe performed at the 2007 Nobel Peace Prize Concert and is the leader of an all-female brass group, tenThing.\n\nHelseth has put out two CDs. Her self-titled debut album was released January 1, 2007 and contained the trumpet concertos of both Johann Nepomuk Hummel and Josef Haydn. Her second album was released November 23, 2009 and contains musical works by Gustav Holst, Georg Friedrich Händel and J.S. Bach.\n\n", "id": "225612", "title": "Tine Thing Helseth"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225618", "text": "White-eared Hummingbird\n\nThe White-eared Hummingbird, (\"Basilinna leucotis\"), is a species hummingbird. It is 9-10 cm long, and weighs about 3-4 grams. Adults are colored green on their upperparts and breast. The undertail is white. The tail is darkly colored and straight. The most non-normal thing is the white eyestripe found in both males and females. It is more boldly colored in the male. The bill of the male is straight and very thin. It is red in coloration, and shows a black tip. His throat is a \"metallic torquoise green.\" His crown and face is violet and black.\n\n", "id": "225618", "title": "White-eared Hummingbird"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225622", "text": "Usher\n\nUsher Terry Raymond IV (born October 14, 1978), is simply known as Usher, is an American singer-songwriter,rapper, dancer, and actor. Usher became well known in the late 1990s with the release of his second album \"My Way\" (1997). The album's single \"Nice & Slow\" reached number one on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart. \"My Way\" was given a 6x platinum certification by the RIAA. This means that 6 million copies of \"My Way\" were shipped in the United States. His next album, \"8701\", released two number one singles. These include \"U Remind Me\" and \"U Got It Bad\". \"8701\" was given a 4x platinum certification by the RIAA. \n\n\"Confessions\" (2004) sold over 10 million copies in the United States. It was given a diamond award by the RIAA. \"Confessions\" has the highest first week sales for an R&B singer in history. The album had four number one \"Billboard\" singles. These include \"Yeah!\", \"Burn\", \"Confessions Part II\", and \"My Boo\". Usher's next album, \"Here I Stand\" (2008), sold over 5 million copies worldwide. The lead single, \"Love In This Club\" reached number one on the Hot 100 chart.\n\nTwo years later, Usher released his sixth album \"Raymond v. Raymond\" (2010). It became the third album to debut at number one on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart. It was then certified platinum by the RIAA. It released \"OMG\", which reached number one. \"OMG\" became Usher's ninth number one song in the United States. Because of this, he became the first 2010s artist to have number one singles in three different decades (1990s, 2000s, and 2010s). \"Versus\" (2010) was released as an extended play and a deluxe edition of \"Raymond v. Raymond\". It debuted at number four on the \"Billboard\" 200 chart. \"DJ Got Us Fallin' in Love\", a single from the album, reached number four on the Hot 100 chart.\n\nAccording to RIAA, Usher is one of the best-selling artists in American music history. He has sold over 23 million copies in the United States. As of 2012, Usher has sold over 65 million copies worldwide. This makes him one of the best-selling music artists of all time. Usher has won a lot of awards. These include seven Grammy Awards. According to \"Billboard\" in 2009, Usher was named the number one Hot 100 artist of the 2000s. While they ranked him second for the most successful artist of the 2000s. His 2004 album \"Confessions\" was ranked at the top solo album of the 2000s. \"Billboard\" also placed Usher at number six on their list of Top 50 R&B/Hip-Hop Artist of the Past 25 Years. Usher has nine Hot 100 number one songs (as lead artist). He also has eighteen Hot 100 top-ten songs.\n\n\n", "id": "225622", "title": "Usher"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225627", "text": "Korean magpie\n\n\nThe Korean magpie\" Pica (pica) sericea\" is a subspecies, or perhaps species, of East Asian magpie. It is a common symbol of Korea, and has been adopted as the \"official bird\" of many South Korean cities and counties.\n\nIt is similar to the European magpie, with a shorter tail and longer wings. It has black and purple colors, but very little green. The Korean magpie has the same chattering call as European magpies, though it is much softer.\n\nKoreans believed that magpies delivered good news, and when they saw a magpie chattering, they believed that visitors were coming.The most famous painting related to a magpie is the one with striped tiger (ggach'i wha horangi minhwa): the magpie is chirping to a tiger. The magpie represented good news and the tiger symbolized good luck, since its pronunciation in Chinese sounds similar to good luck (bok). There are many folktales about magpies.\n\nThe Chinese called magpies \"Birds of Joy\" or \"Happy Magpies\". Under the Manchu dynasty it also represented imperial rule: a few Manchu people in Northeast China even thought they were gods. In the west, though, magpies were often a symbol of pride.\n", "id": "225627", "title": "Korean magpie"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225630", "text": "Left-handedness\n\nLeft-handedness is the preference to use the left hand more than the right hand for daily activities such as writing or using tools. Most people can use either hand for many things. However, people very often have a definite preference for using the left or right hand for things such as: using a pen, using a knife, using scissors, brushing teeth, blowing their nose, and so on. People who do not have a preference are called ambidextrous, and people who cannot use either are called ambisinistrous.\n\nPeople do not just have preferences with things they do with their hands: they may, for example, be left-footed if they prefer to kick a ball with the left foot, or push harder with the left foot on a bicycle pedal.\n\nFar more people are right handed than left handed. It is difficult to measure exactly how many, because each person has a different mixture of preferences, but about 5-10% are left-handed.\n\nBecause left-handed people are different from most others, being left-handed has often been thought of as bad. For many years, right-handedness was seen as \"normal\" and left-handedness as \"not normal\". In Hebrew, as well as in other ancient Semitic and Mesopotamian languages, the word \"left\" was a symbol of power. In many European languages, \"right\" means “correct” (the opposite of “wrong”). In law the word “right” means authority and justice (in a democracy everyone has certain “rights\". In Russian and other Slavic languages \"prav\" is used in words meaning “correct” or “truth”. Someone who is skilled with their hands is called “dexterous”. But \"left\" often means “awkward” in many languages. In French “gauche” also means “clumsy”. In English, the word “sinister” (which comes from the Latin word for “left”, \"sinistra\") means “evil”. We also say that someone has “two left feet” meaning that they are clumsy with their feet (for example they may step on their partner’s toes when dancing).\n\nSometimes people who are left-handed are called “Southpaws”.\n\nThings that are designed by right-handed people can cause problems for left-handed ones. These include guns, cameras, screws and in recent years the computer mouse and the iPhone. Many objects are sold in left-handed versions, which are often more expensive than the right-handed versions. Some items such as a computer mouse can be designed for right handed people but still be used by left handed people and in some cases may even be an improvement for right handed users. \n\nScissors, especially, cause left-handed people some trouble. Most scissors are made for right-handed people. Because they are designed this way, if a person tries to cut something while holding the scissors in their left hand, they cannot see the edge they are cutting. The way the cutting action works is also designed for right-handers, and left-handed people tend to force the blades open instead of cutting cleanly. Even though some scissors say that they can be used by both left and right-handed people, these scissors only have their handles changed. They are still right-handed scissors and still cause the same issues.\n\nIt can be difficult for left-handed children to learn to write if the teacher does not give them special help. The reason for this is that most writing moves from left to right across the page. This means that left-handed writers may hold their hand over what has just been written.\n\nIn many countries, children are allowed to write with whichever hand is easier, although there are some countries where children may be made to write with the right hand. Many things can be difficult for left-handed writers. Chairs with writing boards may all be made for right-handed people. This makes left-handed people sit awkwardly and hold their pens in an awkward way.\n\nRecent research has shown that it can be an advantage for animals and for humans to be left-handed. Being able to do things differently from most people can be a great help in many sports, such as tennis or fighting with swords.\nIn tennis, left-handed players hold the racket in their left hand. Because of this, their grip of the handle is supposedly adjusted in a slightly different style from right-handed players. Some world champion tennis players that play with their left hand include Jimmy Connors, Guillermo Vilas, John McEnroe, Martina Navratilova, Marcelo Ríos, and Rafael Nadal.\n", "id": "225630", "title": "Left-handedness"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225631", "text": "Cumulus cloud\n\nCumulus clouds are white clouds that are dense and large. They are known to look like cauliflower. Mostly, you can see easily that cumulus clouds have flat bottoms but the tops are always changing shape. \n\nSeeing a cumulus cloud means that the air is well mixed by up and down vertical drafts. When a cumulus cloud grows into a thunderstorm, the cloud is called a cumulonimbus cloud. This is a sign that the air is rising to the stratosphere.\n\n", "id": "225631", "title": "Cumulus cloud"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225633", "text": "Alyosha Karamazov\n\nAlexei Fyodorovich Karamazov is the \"hero\" of Fyodor Dostoevsky's novel, \"The Brothers Karamazov\". He is also called Alyosha, Alyoshka, Alyoshenka, Alyoshechka, Alexeichik, Lyosha, and Lyoshenka. He is the youngest of the Karamazov brothers, being \"then only twenty (his brother Ivan was twenty-three and their older brother, Dmitry, twenty-seven)\". The author's preface and first chapters declare that he is the novel's hero.\n\nAlyosha is physically described as:\n\nHis personality is remarkably unselfish, extremely mature in his religious faith, sensitive to other people's feelings, and loving - \"he certainly loved people: throughout his life he seemed to believe in people and to trust them, and yet no one ever thought him simple-minded or naive. There was something in him (and it stayed with him all his life) that made people realize that he refused to sit in judgment on others, that he felt he had no right to, and that, whatever happened, he would never condemn anyone.\" He passes on the influence of Zosima to the \"younger generation\" (the schoolboys) of the town. Even with all his kind goodness, he has a gentle personality that makes almost everybody love him and feel comfortable around him. Proud young Kolya Krasotkin says that the best thing about Alyosha is that he treats him like \"an equal\".\n\nAnna-Theresa Tymieniecka says that Alyosha, like Prince Myshkin, the protagonist in another Dostoevsky novel, \"The Idiot\", are almost Jesus-like characters, who are, however, unable to stop the greatest suffering of those around them. She suggests that Alyosha is too calm, and does not do much action in the events of the novel.\n\nRufus W. Mathewson, however, argues that Alyosha Karamazov is a more successful positive hero than Prince Myshkin. He argues that Alyosha's most impressive success as helping Dmitri. He describes Alyosha as using forgiveness, kindness and natural justice, rather than trying to change people.\n\nIt is probable that Dostoevsky used his friend Vladimir Solovyov's character for Alyosha. Vladimir Solovyov was a Russian poet and philosopher who was very generous, even giving away his clothes to people in the street.\n", "id": "225633", "title": "Alyosha Karamazov"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225634", "text": "Stratus cloud\n\nStratus clouds are low altitude gray clouds that make a flat base. The name comes from the Latin word \"stratus\", which means to \"stretch\" or \"extend.\" You can see stratus clouds as thick cloud blankets near the sea. They are sometimes called \"high fogs\". Light rain and drizzle often fall from stratus clouds. When rain falls from stratus clouds they are mostly called nimbostratus. \n", "id": "225634", "title": "Stratus cloud"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225658", "text": "Pliosaur\n\nThe Pliosaurs were a group of large submarine plesiosaur reptiles from the Mesozoic era. They had short necks and large heads, in contrast to other plesiosaurs. Their sizes ranged from two to 15 metres, and they were predators of large fish and other reptiles. Their streamlined body shape suggests they swam and ate under water.\n\nThe first specimen was found by Mary Anning, on the 'Jurassic Coast' of Lyme Regis, England in the 1820s. Many of her finds are on display in the Natural History Museum, London.\n\nIt was suggested by D.M.S. Watson that plesiosaurs fell into two groups. The pliosaurs were large predators which ate large prey in deep water. The other plesiosaurs were long-necked with smaller heads. Their method was as surface swimmers, mostly eating with their head above water, darting down to snatch smaller fish which were feeding on plankton.\n\n", "id": "225658", "title": "Pliosaur"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225659", "text": "Ball lightning\n\nBall lightning is a glowing ball of lightning that sometimes appears in a thunderstorm, but usually lasts much longer than lightning. Scientists do not understand ball lightning very well, and some even do not think ball lightning is real, because it is so strange. However, it has been widely reported in weather journals by many trustworthy people. So, it is very possible that it is real.\n\nThose who have seen it say it's the size of a grapefruit or basketball; it has even been said to be as big as a car. The glowing ball is either red, orange, or yellow. A few people have seen it falling from clouds. Sometimes, ball lightning floats or glides just above the ground for a few seconds, or it can roll on the surface of an object. Hissing noises come from the fiery orb. Some have even thought it was a UFO. Ball lightning sometimes explodes loudly, while other times it just quietly disappears. It has been known to smash or simply go through windows, hopping and sizzling across the floor, and then disappear into things like TVs or up the chimney. Some say that ball lightning can kill humans, while others say that its effect on humans are harmless.\n\nMany people are said to have seen ball lightning. Ebenezer Cobham Brewer wrote about \"globular lightning\", saying they may fall to the ground or explode like a cannon. Laura Ingalls Wilder writes in her book about ball lightning, saying that when she was little, she saw balls of light, which her mother chased away with a broom. \n\nCzar Nicholas II, Russia's last emperor, said he had seen ball lightning:\n\n", "id": "225659", "title": "Ball lightning"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225660", "text": "Sauropterygia\n\nThe Sauropterygia was a superorder of successful aquatic reptiles that flourished during the Mesozoic era. They are united by an adaptation of their shoulder, designed to support powerful paddle strokes. Some later sauropterygians like the pliosaurs developed a similar mechanism in their pelvis.\n\nThe earliest sauropterygians appeared about 245 million years ago, at the start of the Triassic period. At first they were small, less than a metre. They were semi-aquatic lizard-like animals with long limbs (called pachypleurosaurs). They developed into a group called the nothosaurs, several meters long. The sauropterygians included another very distinctive group: the placodonts. They were bottom-feeders on shellfish, and possessed flat, crushing teeth to handle their prey.\n\nThe end-Triassic extinction event wiped them all out except for the plesiosaurs. During the earliest Jurassic these diversified quickly into the long-necked small-headed plesiosaurs proper, and short-necked large-headed pliosaurs. \n\n\n\n", "id": "225660", "title": "Sauropterygia"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225674", "text": "Oceanic trench\n\nOcean trenches have relatively steep sides falling to the ocean floor.\n\nOcean trenches are typically caused when an oceanic crustal plate slides under a lighter continental plate or another oceanic plate. It is believed to work by density. Where one plate slides under another, this is called subduction. As the heavier plate descends, the long, narrow feature caused is called the \"subduction zone\". It is here that oceanic trenches form. They can be 1,500 miles (2,400 km) long, several miles deep, and as much as 70 miles (112 km) wide.\nAt least five trenches are over 6 miles (10 km) deep. The greatest ocean depth to be sounded is in the Challenger Deep of the Mariana Trench, at a depth of \n\nTrenches are active with earthquakes and resulting tsunamis. Most volcanism associated with trenches occurs on the continent and not on the sea floor. However, many of the ocean's volcanic islands and seamounts are found in what are called island arcs, bending chains of islands rising from the sea floor, usually paralleling the concave edges of an oceanic trench. The western Pacific has island arcism as do the Aleutian Islands.\n\nNear the island of Guam is the famous Mariana Trench where the Pacific Plate descends under the leading edge of the Eurasian Plate. Measured at 36,201 feet - over 6.8 miles (11 km) deep, this trench is the deepest known spot in any ocean. In 1960, two men in the bathyscaph \"Trieste\" reached bottom of the Mariana Trench. \n\nOther extensive trench regions around the world include the South Sandwich Trench between South America and Antarctica, the Peru-Chile Trench, and the Aleutian Trench.\n\n", "id": "225674", "title": "Oceanic trench"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225686", "text": "North Kosovo\n\nNorth Kosovo is a Serbian enclave in Kosovo. It has over 80,000 residents, at least 98% of them are Christian Serbs. There are about 3,000 Albanians, and about 2000 Turks, Greeks, Gorans, Romas and others.\n\nUnlike the Strpce municipality which is autonomous, North Kosovo is directly run by the Government of Belgrade.\n\nIn North Kosovo, Serbian car plates are still used and the Serbian dinar is used as the official currency.\n\nThe enclave consists of the 3 municipalities of Zvecan, Leposavic, Zubin Potok (as well as part of Mitrovica. The enclave's area is (11% of the country's total area). Lake Gorazdevac is also in the enclave.\n\nThe United Nations does not recognize Kosovo as a country because of the 1999 United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244. Other world governing bodies do not recognise it as a country, either.\n", "id": "225686", "title": "North Kosovo"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225711", "text": "Violet-fronted brilliant\n\nThe violet-fronted brilliant (\"Heliodoxa leadbeateri\") is a species of hummingbird. It is found in Bolivia, Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Venezuela. Its natural habitat is subtropical or tropical moist montane forests.\n\n", "id": "225711", "title": "Violet-fronted brilliant"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225737", "text": "SS Yongala\n\nSS \"Yongala\" was a passenger ship that was launched in 1903. It sank off Cape Bowling Green on 23 March 1911 on its way to from Melbourne, Australia to Cairns she entered into a cyclone and sank without a trace south of Townsville. All passengers onboard drowned and the shipwreck was found in 1958 off the coast of Townsville.\n\n\n", "id": "225737", "title": "SS Yongala"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225767", "text": "Parides childrenae\n\nThe Green-celled Cattleheart (Parides childrenae) is a species of butterfly. It belongs in the family Papilionidae. It is found in southern North America and northern South America.\n\nThe upper side of the wings is black. The male has a bright green patch on the fore wing (top wing). There is a small pale yellow spot near the tip of the fore wing. There is a red patch on the hind wing (bottom wing). The female has a small white patch on the fore wing. There are a few pale spots on the fore wing. There is a band of red spots on the hind wing. The underside of the wings is also black. The male has small pale spots near the tip of the fore wing and a few red spots on the hind wing. The female's underside is the same as the upper side.\n\n", "id": "225767", "title": "Parides childrenae"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225770", "text": "Los Angeles (disambiguation)\n\nLos Angeles is a city in California and the second-largest city in the United States. Los Angeles may also mean:\n", "id": "225770", "title": "Los Angeles (disambiguation)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225820", "text": "Oviparous animals\n\nOviparous animals are animals that reproduce by laying eggs. This is how most fish, amphibians, reptiles, insects, and arachnids reproduce. All birds and monotremes also reproduce like this.\n\nThe eggs that of most animals that live on land are protected by hard shells. They [fertilization|fertilize] their eggs internally. Water-dwelling animals like fish and amphibians lay eggs that have not been fertilized yet. Then the males lay sperm on top of the eggs, which is called [[external fertilization].\n\n\n[[Category:Zoology]]", "id": "225820", "title": "Oviparous animals"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225821", "text": "Aplacophora\n\nThe Aplacophora is a class of small, deep-water, exclusively benthic, shell-less marine molluscs. They are found in all oceans of the world. They are a small group of molluscs which have deviated from the normal molluscan form. There are approximately 100 known species living today. They are rather worm-like and average about an inch (2.5 cms.) in length. \n\nMost live in deep water, except a few more northern species. One group bury themselves into the sand and mud of the ocean bottom where they feed on annelids and other small invertebrates. The rest of the known aplacophorans parasitize hydroids and other corals.\n\nThis class used to be classified as sea cucumbers in the echinoderms. In 1987, they were officially recognized as molluscs and given their own class. The class is polyphyletic, and consists of two clades.\n", "id": "225821", "title": "Aplacophora"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225826", "text": "Monoplacophora\n\nMonoplacophora is a class of molluscs. They have a cap-like shell and live on the bottom of the sea. \n\nThey were well-known as a fossil group from the Cambrian to the Devonian. One species was dredged up from the Pacific Ocean off Mexico in 1952. It was found to be a Monoplacophoran, and given the genus of \"Neopilina\". This was one of the most remarkable modern discoveries of a 'living fossil', and a Lazarus taxon. \n\nMore than that, they are the most extreme example of the \"pull of the recent\", which is a term in palaeontology. All fossil groups have a first and last appearance in the fossil record but, for living species, their last appearance is the present day. This may be very much later than their last appearance as a fossil. The discovery of the living monoplacs extended their time range by 400 million years.\n\nThe anatomy of \"Neopilina\" shows \"serially repeated structures\" such as gills. Serial repetition of anatomical structures such as gills and muscles may have evolved once in the common ancestor of chitons and monoplacophorans. It suggests the ancient ancestor of molluscs had bilateral symmetry, and segments.\n", "id": "225826", "title": "Monoplacophora"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225846", "text": "Zebra turkeyfish\n\nThe Zebra turkeyfish (\"Dendrochirus zebra\") is a very poisonous fish. It lives in the Indian and Pacific seas. The fish has 13 poisonous spikes along its back, used to look after itself. The fish is slow and quiet, but can be a danger. The fish rests in dark places such as under a rock or a piece of coral. They aren't affected by each other's poison. They are single fish that are not scared of anything, as they have no predators other than groupers.\n", "id": "225846", "title": "Zebra turkeyfish"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225860", "text": "Aris Thessaloniki F.C.\n\nAris Thessaloniki F.C. is a Greek football club. Its based in Thessaloniki. Aris's colours is the yellow and black. Its emblem is the ancient god of war, Ares. This club is the fifth most successful Greek club, as it has won three championships and one Greek cup. Aris won the first Greek championship in 1928.\n\n", "id": "225860", "title": "Aris Thessaloniki F.C."}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225870", "text": "Slender loris\n\nThe slender loris is a nocturnal hunter. It moves slowly through trees and grips branches tightly with its opposable thumbs and toes. When it attacks prey it goes closer and then snatches it with both hands. \n\nThe slender loris is about the size of a squirrel, and has small finger nails. It has two brown eyes, and has white fur on its chest. \n\nThe slender loris usually spends its time on trees. They like to groom and wrestle with each other.\n\nThese animals eat insects, lizards, birds, but will also eat things like slugs, flowers, shoots, young leaves, and sometimes even eggs. They would also like termites and roaches for a tasty treat.\n\nNative people thought that the slender lorises had magical powers. It is not clear how many slender lorises survive in the wild.\n", "id": "225870", "title": "Slender loris"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225879", "text": "Panionios F.C\n\nPanionios is a Greek football club. It was founded in 1890 in Smyrni, Turkey by Greek people who lived there. During the Greek-Turkish war in 1922 the Greek people left from there and they went to Greece. So, the club came to Greece to the Athenian suburb Nea Smyrni. The colours of the club are red and blue. Panionios has won two Greek cups.\n\n", "id": "225879", "title": "Panionios F.C"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225886", "text": "Dave Meltzer\n\nDave Meltzer (born in 1961) is a man who writes about professional wrestling for his magazine, and also on the Internet. Meltzer's website is called the \"Wrestling Observer\". Before Meltzer, most writers wrote that professional wrestling was real, but Meltzer writes that it is not. He has also written two books called \"Tributes\" and \"Tributes II\".\n", "id": "225886", "title": "Dave Meltzer"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225900", "text": "List of chess grandmasters\n\nThis is a list of chess grandmasters rated 2700+, plus other players of the highest status.\n\n\n\n\n", "id": "225900", "title": "List of chess grandmasters"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225947", "text": "Umkhonto we Sizwe\n\nUmkhonto we Sizwe (), was a guerilla movement created in 1961 by Nelson Mandela, Walter Sisulu and other people from the African National Congress. It was created when the government started killing and hurting people that protested against the apartheid. Nelson Mandela first wanted to free South Africa without violence, but the government created laws to prevent that. Mandela then decided that if the black people did not use violence, they would never regain their rights.\n\nUmkhonto we Sizwe stopped being active a bit before the end of the apartheid, in 1991.\n", "id": "225947", "title": "Umkhonto we Sizwe"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225953", "text": "Heikki Kovalainen\n\nHeikki Johannes Kovalainen (born October 19, 1981 in Suomussalmi, Finland) is a Finnish Formula One racing driver who spent the 2008 and 2009 seasons with British-based team Vodafone McLaren Mercedes. In 2010, he joined the new Lotus team.\n\n Season in progress.\n\n Season in progress.\n", "id": "225953", "title": "Heikki Kovalainen"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225955", "text": "Luca Badoer\n\nLuca Badoer (born 25 January 1971) is an Italian Formula One driver. He was born in Montebelluna. He has raced for the Scuderia Italia, Minardi, Forti Corse and most recently, Ferrari teams. In addition to his racing duties, Badoer has been active as one of the test and reserve drivers for Ferrari since 1997 and in 2009 stood in for Ferrari's regular race driver Felipe Massa at the European Grand Prix and the Belgian Grand Prix, after the Brazilian was injured during qualifying for the Hungarian Grand Prix and his original replacement, Michael Schumacher, pulled out due to injury.\n", "id": "225955", "title": "Luca Badoer"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225956", "text": "Nick Heidfeld\n\nNick Lars Heidfeld (born May 10, 1977 in Mönchengladbach, West Germany) is a German racing driver In 2010 he was the test and reserve driver for the Mercedes GP Formula One team. In August, Mercedes released Heidfeld from his contract to allow him to do tyre testing. He will test the new Pirelli tyre that will be used in the season. He previously raced in Formula One from to . \n\nIn September, Heidfeld was signed by Sauber to replace Pedro de la Rosa. Heidfeld drove for Sauber from to , and to .\n\nIn 2011, Renault selected Heidfeld to replace the injured Robert Kubica.\n\n Season in progress.\n\n Season in progress.\n", "id": "225956", "title": "Nick Heidfeld"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225961", "text": "Romain Grosjean\n\nRomain Grosjean (born April 17, 1986 in Geneva, Switzerland) is a Formula One racing driver, who holds dual nationality from France and Switzerland, but competes under a French racing licence. He was the 2007 Formula Three Euroseries drivers' champion and the inaugural GP2 Asia Series champion.\n", "id": "225961", "title": "Romain Grosjean"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225962", "text": "Jarno Trulli\n\nJarno Trulli (born 13 July 1974 in Pescara, Abruzzo) is an Italian Formula One auto racing driver. He has been a regular in Formula One since 1997, driving for Minardi, Prost, Jordan, Renault and Toyota. He won the Monaco Grand Prix for Renault, his only Grand Prix victory to date. He is known for being a qualification expert. After Toyota pulled out of the sport, following the 2009 season, he joined the new Lotus Racing team in 2010.\n\n Season in progress.\n\n Season in progress.\n\n", "id": "225962", "title": "Jarno Trulli"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225963", "text": "Timo Glock\n\nTimo Glock (born 18 March 1982) is a German motor racing driver. At the Canadian Grand Prix, Glock replaced Giorgio Pantano at Jordan. Glock joined the small group of drivers who have scored a World Championship point in their first Formula One race. As of , he driving is for Marussia F1. He has failed to score a point with the team since its creation in 2010\n\n Season in progress.\n\n Season in progress.\n\n", "id": "225963", "title": "Timo Glock"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225964", "text": "Kamui Kobayashi\n\nKamui Kobayashi (born 13 September 1986 in Amagasaki, Hyogo Japan) is a Japanese racing driver. He has competed in the GP2 Series, won the GP2 Asia Series, and drove in the FIA Formula One World Championship with the Toyota Formula One team in 2009. He is currently driving for Sauber.\n\nKobayashi was born in Amagasaki, near Kobe.\n\n Season in progress.\n", "id": "225964", "title": "Kamui Kobayashi"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225966", "text": "Mark Webber\n\nMark Alan Webber (born 27 August 1976 in Queanbeyan, New South Wales) is an Australian Formula One driver. At the German Grand Prix, he became the first Australian to win a race since Alan Jones in .\n\nHe currently drives for the Red Bull Racing Formula One team.\n\n Season in progress.\n\n Season in progress.\n", "id": "225966", "title": "Mark Webber"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225987", "text": "Bartje\n\nBartje Bartels is the main character in a series of Dutch books written by Anne de Vries at the beginning of the 20th century. The stories are about a boy who grows up in a poor family in the countryside in Drenthe in the north-east of the Netherlands.\n\nThe author Anne de Vries is male. The name “Anne”, although usually a girl's name, can also be used as a boy’s name in Dutch, especially in the north where Frisian is spoken. It is pronounced “Oa-ne”.\n\nBartje (pronounce: “BAR-che”) is a boy whose father is a poor farmer. His parents expect him to become a farmer like his father, but Bartje has other ideas. Bartje starts work as an apprentice, but then his mother dies and he has to look after his younger brothers and sisters.\n\nThe most famous quotation from the Bartje books come in the story in which the family are sitting down to a meal. They are going to eat brown beans. Bartje hates brown beans and pulls his empty plate away when his mother wants to give him some. He refuses to say grace (to say a prayer to thank God for the food they are about to eat) and he says: \"Ik bid nie veur bruune boon'n \" (in modern Dutch: \"Ik bid niet voor bruine bonen\", meaning: \"I don’t pray for brown beans\"). His parents are shocked and he gets into big trouble.\n\nBartje has become a much-loved symbol for the province of Drenthe. The stories were made into a television series which was shown in 1972 and repeated in 2004. The film had Dutch subtitles because the actors were speaking in Drenthe dialect. \n\nThere is a statue to Bartje in the town of Assen. Unfortunately it has been vandalized several times.\n", "id": "225987", "title": "Bartje"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225998", "text": "Lancaster, Lancashire\n\nLancaster is the county town of Lancashire, England. It is on the River Lune. As of the 2001 census, it had 45,952 people. The larger City of Lancaster local government district is named after Lancaster.\n\nLancaster Castle is well known as the site of the Pendle witch trials in 1612. \n\nLancaster is the most northerly city in Lancashire, three miles from Morecambe Bay. The city is on the River Lune, the Lancaster Canal, and the West Coast Main Line. It is close to the M6 motorway.\n\nLancaster has two universities. These are Lancaster University and The University of Cumbria. \n", "id": "225998", "title": "Lancaster, Lancashire"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226010", "text": "Decatur, Wisconsin\n\nDecatur is a town in Green County of the state of Wisconsin in the United States. 1,688 people were living in Decatur as of the 2000 census. Decatur has an area of 34.4 square miles, says the United States Census Bureau.\n", "id": "226010", "title": "Decatur, Wisconsin"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226012", "text": "Strepsirrhini\n\nThe Strepsirrhini clade is one of the two suborders of primates, with 114 species. They are defined by their wet noses, although the Greek name means having a curved or bent nose. Madagascar's only primates (apart from humans) are strepsirrhines, although others can be found in southeast Asia.\nTheir eyes have a reflective layer to improve their night vision, and their eye sockets have a ring of bone around the eye. Strepsirrhine primates produce their own vitamin C, whereas haplorhine primates (and ourselves) must get it from their diets. \n\nThe suborder contains the lemurs and lorises. The modern types probably evolved from the Adapiforms, an extinct group.\n\nThe origin of the earliest primates, from which both the strepsirrhines and haplorhines (simians and tarsiers) evolved, is a mystery. Both their place of origin and the group from which they evolved are uncertain. \n\nAlthough the fossil record of their initial radiation across the Northern Hemisphere is very detailed, the fossil record from the tropics—where primates most likely evolved—is very poor, particularly around the time that primates and other eutherian mammals were first appearing. \n\nSo, geneticists and primatologists have used genetic analyses to determine the relatedness between primate lines and when they diverged. Using this molecular clock, it seems that primates evolved more than 80–90 mya, nearly 40 million years before the first primates appear in the fossil record.\n\n", "id": "226012", "title": "Strepsirrhini"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226019", "text": "Haplorhini\n\nThe haplorhines, the \"dry-nosed\" primates (the Greek name means \"simple-nosed\"), are members of the Haplorhini clade: the prosimian tarsiers and all of the true simians. The simians are the catarrhines (Old World monkeys and apes, including humans) and the platyrrhines (New World monkeys).\n\n", "id": "226019", "title": "Haplorhini"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226091", "text": "Tisza\n\nThe Tisza is one of the major rivers of Central Europe. It starts in Ukraine, with the White Tisza in the Chornohora and Black Tisza in the Gorgany range, and flows partially along the Romanian border. It then enters Hungary at Tiszabecs and passes through Hungary touching the border with Slovakia. It then into the Danube in central Vojvodina in Serbia. The Tisza drains an area of about 157,186 km².\n\nNames for the river in the countries it flows through are:\n\n\n\n", "id": "226091", "title": "Tisza"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226095", "text": "Free love\n\nFree love is when people are free to have sexual relations with anyone without getting married. This has been used as early as in the 19th century. It is a social movement that rejects marriage as a form of social and financial bondage (slavery)..\n", "id": "226095", "title": "Free love"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226096", "text": "Breakaway (Kelly Clarkson album)\n\nBreakaway is the second album by American singer Kelly Clarkson; it was released on November 30, 2004.\n\nThe album debuted at number three on the \"Billboard\" 200 for selling 250,000 copies. It has sold over 6 million copies in the United States and has been certified six times Platinum by the RIAA. \"Breakaway\" received two awards at the 2006 Grammy Awards including \"Best Pop Vocal Album\" and \"Best Female Pop Vocal Performance\" for the single \"Since U Been Gone\".\n\nFive singles were released from the album, \"Since U Been Gone\", \"Behind These Hazel Eyes\", \"Because of You\", \"Walk Away\", and \"Breakaway\".\n", "id": "226096", "title": "Breakaway (Kelly Clarkson album)"}
{"url": "https://simple.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226097", "text": "Breakaway\n\nBreakaway may refer to:\n\n", "id": "226097", "title": "Breakaway"}
